Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/66694581/1/lee-v-tucs-cleaning-services-inc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in LEE v. T.U.C.S. CLEANING SERVICES, INC. (E.D. Pa., 2:23-cv-00001) – CourtListener.com

                    IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                  FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

Aneerah S. Lee,                                : Civil Action
                                               :
                                     Plaintiff : No.
                                               :
vs.                                            : Jury Trial Demanded
                                               :
T.U.C.S. Cleaning       Services, Inc. and :
Edward Johnson,                                :
                                               :
                                  Defendants :

                                          COMPLAINT

                                       INTRODUCTION

       1.      Plaintiff Aneerah S. Lee (“Lee”) is suing her former employer, TUCS Cleaning

Services, Inc. (“TUCS”), and her former boss, Edward Johnson (“Johnson”), for sexual

harassment and sex discrimination.

       2.      Lee brings her case under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended,

42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq. (“Title VII”), the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 Pa. C.S.A. §§

951, et seq. (“PHRA”), and the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance (“PFPO”), Phila. Code §9-

1100, et seq. (“PFPO”). Lee seeks back pay, reinstatement or front pay, loss of earnings capacity,

compensatory damages, punitive damages (under Title VII and the PFPO only), interest,

negative tax consequence damages, injunctive relief, and attorney’s fees and costs.

                                JURISDICTION AND VENUE

       3.      This Court has original jurisdiction to hear this action and adjudicate the claims

herein pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331, 1343.

       4.      All jurisdictional prerequisites to bringing this action have been satisfied because:




                                                 1
                  (a)    On May 20, 2016, Plaintiff timely filed a Complaint with the Pennsylvania

        Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”), which Lee dual-filed with the Equal

        Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”);

                  (b)    In or around August or September 2022, the PHRC closed Lee’s

        Complaint. Any civil action under the PHRA must be filed in court within two years after

        notice from the PHRC that it is closing the complaint; and

                  (c)    On October 4, 2022, the EEOC issued a Dismissal and Notice of Rights

        Notice.

        5.        Venue is appropriate in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania because the events or

omissions giving rise to Lee’s claims occurred therein and because Defendants are doing business

and/or may be served with process therein.

                                           THE PARTIES

        6.        Lee is an adult female and is a citizen and resident of the United States. Plaintiff

resides in Upper Darby, Pennsylvania.

        7.        TUCS is a domestic corporation with a principal place of business located at 615

Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19106.

        8.        TUCS employs employees 500-1,000 employees.

        9.        TUCS is an employer within the meaning of Title VII, the PHRA, and the

PFPO.

        10.       Johnson is an adult male and is a citizen and resident of the United States.

        11.       At all relevant times, Johnson was a supervisor with TUCS, assigned to West

Philadelphia High School.

        12.       At all relevant times, TUCS acted by and through its agents and/or employees.




                                                   2
                                           FACTS

               Sexual Harassment and Sex Discrimination are Foreseeable

         13.    In 2016, almost 7,000 sexual harassment charges were filed with the EEOC, 82%

by women, according to an analysis performed by the National Women’s Law Center.1 See

https://nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/SexualHarassmentReport.pdf            (last   visited

December 29, 2022).

         14.    According to a 2017 survey performed by the Pew Research Center, “[a]bout

four-in-ten working women (42%) in the United States say they have faced discrimination on the

job because of their gender.” See https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/12/14/gender-

discrimination-comes-in-many-forms-for-todays-working-women/ (last visited December 29,

2022).

         15.    Despite foreseeability of both sexual harassment and sex discrimination, TUCS

hired Human Resources personnel who were not qualified to implement and follow policies

prohibiting harassment and discrimination laws.

         16.    Despite foreseeability of both sexual harassment and sex discrimination, TUCS

did not adequately train its managers to follow policies prohibiting sexual harassment and sex

discrimination.

         17.    Despite foreseeability of both sexual harassment and sex discrimination, TUCS

failed to supervise its managers to ensure they followed policies prohibiting sexual harassment

and sex discrimination.

         18.    Although foreseeable, TUCS failed to prevent sexual harassment and sex

discrimination against Lee.


1 This number does not include charges filed with state or local Fair Employment Practices

Agencies.

                                              3
                                Lee’s Employment with TUCS

          19.   TUCS provides professional facility management, operations, and maintenance

services for private and publics clients throughout Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York,

Delaware, and Maryland. Its services include general office cleaning, porter and matron, floor

maintenance, carpet care, marble restoration and cleaning, metal refinishing and maintenance,

window and upholstery cleaning, blind cleaning, construction clean-up, and lighting

maintenance and replacement.

          20.   On October 7, 2015, Lee began working for TUCS.

          21.   Lee’s performed janitorial work while employed with TUCS.

          22.   At all relevant times, Lee was qualified for this position based on Lee’s previous

experience and because Lee met TUCS’s qualifications and reasonable expectations for the

position.

          23.   At all relevant times, TUCS assigned Lee to work at West Philadelphia High

School.

          24.   At all relevant times, Johnson was Lee’s supervisor.

          25.   From October 2015 through January 2016, Johnson sexually harassed Lee. For

example:

                (a)    Johnson groped Lee’s breasts and buttocks.

                (b)    Johnson asked Lee to go into the locker room with him for sexual activity.

                (c)    Johnson asked Lee to have sex with him.

                (d)    Johnson regularly made sexual comments to Lee like “I need a dick suck,”

          “You never gave me no sex,” and “When are you going to give me some?”

                (e)    Johnson told Lee’s co-workers that he and Lee were (sexually) messing

          around.


                                                 4
        26.     Johnson’s sexual advances were unwelcomed and Lee refused Johnson’s sexual

advances.

        27.     In late January 2016, Johnson let Lee go from the West Philadelphia High School

site. TUCS told Lee that she was put on a floater list, which meant that TUCS would call Lee to

work at various locations on an as-needed basis.

        28.     TUCS never called Lee back to work.

        29.     Lee contacted TUCS every other week to inquire about her employment with

TUCS and was told that she was on a floater list and that TUCS would call Lee when they

needed her to work.

        30.     On April 4, 2016, TUCS fired Lee. TUCS claimed that Lee had been late for

work.

        31.     On April 4, 2016, TUCS issued an “Employee Warning Notice” with an alleged

warning date of January 20, 2016. The Employee Warning Notice claims that Lee “was out too

many days and was late too many times due to baby sitting issues.” The Employee Warning

Notice states that the action taken was “Termination last day worked 1-19-2016.”

        32.     Despite an alleged warning date of January 20, 2016, TUCS did not issue this

“Employee Warning Notice” until April 4, 2016.

        33.     During Lee’s employment with TUCS, Lee did not receive any discipline other

than the “Employee Warning Notice.”

        34.     During Lee’s employment with TUCS, no one warned Lee about any attendance

or tardiness issues.

        35.     Upon information and belief, Johnson caused Lee to be fired because Lee refused

Johnson’s sexual advances.




                                                   5
           36.   Upon information and belief, TUCS also fired Lee because she is a female with

children.

                                            Count I
                              Quid Pro Quo Sexual Harassment
                                (Title VII, PHRA, and PFPO)

           37.   Paragraphs 1 through 36 are incorporated herein by reference as though set forth

in full.

           38.   As averred above, throughout Lee’s employment with TUCS, Johnson sexually

harassed Lee. The sexually harassing conduct was inflicted upon Lee because of her female sex.

           39.   At all times, Johnson’s sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other

verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature was unwelcome.

           40.   Lee’s submission to Johnson’s conduct was made either explicitly or implicitly a

term or condition of Lee’s employment with TUCS.

           41.   Defendants used Lee’s rejection of Johnson’s conduct as the basis of employment

decisions affecting Lee.

           42.   Defendants violated Title VII, the PHRA, and the PFPO.

           43.   Johnson aided and abetted TUCS’ unlawful treatment of Lee in violation of the

PHRA and the PFPO.

           44.   Defendants’ conduct has been intentional, deliberate, willful, and with callous

disregard of Lee’s rights.

           45.   Defendants’ actions detrimentally affected Lee and have caused Lee to suffer from

emotional distress and lost wages.




                                                 6
                                          Count II
                      Sexual Harassment/Hostile Work Environment
                               (Title VII, PHRA, and PFPO)

           46.   Paragraphs 1 through 45 are incorporated herein by reference as though set forth

in full.

           47.   As averred above, throughout Lee’s employment with TUCS, Johnson sexually

harassed Lee. The sexually harassing conduct was inflicted upon Lee because of her female sex.

           48.   Johnson’s sexually harassing conduct was severe and/or pervasive and regular.

           49.   Johnson’s sexually harassing conduct detrimentally affected Lee and would

detrimentally affect a reasonable person of the same sex in Lee’s position.

           50.   Defendants violated Title VII, the PHRA, and the PFPO.

           51.   Johnson aided and abetted TUCS’ unlawful treatment of Lee in violation of the

PHRA and the PFPO.

           52.   Defendants’ conduct has been intentional, deliberate, willful, and with callous

disregard of Lee’s rights.

           53.   Defendants’ actions detrimentally affected Lee and have caused Lee to suffer from

emotional distress and lost wages.

                                             Count III
                                        Sex Discrimination

           54.   Paragraphs 1 through 53 are incorporated herein by reference as though set forth

in full.

           55.   As averred above, Lee is female.

           56.   As averred above, at all relevant times, Lee was qualified for her position.

           57.   As averred above, upon information and belief, TUCS also fired Lee because she

is a female with children.



                                                    7
       58.     Defendants violated Title VII, the PHRA, and the PFPO.

       59.     Johnson aided and abetted TUCS’ unlawful treatment of Lee in violation of the

PHRA and the PFPO.

       60.     Defendants’ conduct has been intentional, deliberate, willful, and with callous

disregard of Lee’s rights.

       61.     Defendants’ actions detrimentally affected Lee and have caused Lee to suffer from

emotional distress and lost wages.

                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, Lee respectfully requests this Court to:

       1.      Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendants’ actions as set forth in

this Complaint are unlawful and violate Title VII, the PHRA, and the PFPO.

       2.      Issue equitable/injunctive relief including:

               (a)     Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and restraining

       TUCS, its officers, agents, employees, and those acting in participation with TUCS, from

       engaging in any act or practice of harassment and discrimination against employees in

       violation of Title VII, the PHRA, and the PFPO.

               (b)     Order TUCS to provide training to all employees on harassment and

       discrimination prevention and related compliance under Title VII, the PHRA, and the

       PFPO—with the training specifics to be tailored to the problems, deficiencies, and gaps

       that the evidence shows.

               (c)     Order TUCS to electronically deliver to its employees a copy of the jury

       verdict and trial court judgment.




                                                 8
               (d)     Order TUCS to report on the manner of compliance with the terms of

       any final order for non-monetary equitable relief issued under Title VII, the PHRA, and

       the PFPO—with the reporting specifics to be tailored based on the evidence.

               (e)     Order TUCS to reinstate Lee upon such terms and conditions as will put

       Lee in the position she would have occupied had Defendants not unlawfully harassed and

       discriminated against her.

       3.      Enter judgment in favor of Lee and against Defendants for back pay, including

wages and fringe benefits.

       4.      Enter judgment in favor of Lee for front pay in lieu of reinstatement.

       5.      Enter judgment in favor of Lee and against Defendants for compensatory

damages for emotional distress, mental anguish, humiliation, embarrassment, and loss of dignity.

       6.      Enter judgment in favor of Lee and against Defendants for punitive damages, as

allowable by law.

       7.      Award Lee reasonable attorney’s fees together with the costs of this action.

       8.      Award Lee pre-judgment and post-judgment interest.

       9.      Enter judgment in favor of Lee for any other monetary losses as a direct result of

Defendants’ violation of Title VII, the PHRA, and the PFPO, including but not limited to

negative tax consequence damages.

       10.     Award such other and further legal and equitable relief as may be necessary and

appropriate to redress fully the deprivation of Lee’s rights, to prevent their recurrence in the

future and to protect other employees from such unlawful behavior.

                                         JURY DEMAND

       Plaintiff demands a jury to try all claims triable by jury.




                                                  9
Dated: January 1, 2023        ______________________________
                              Stephanie J. Mensing
                              PA ID No. 89625
                              Mensing Law LLC
                              1515 Market Street, Suite 1200
                              Philadelphia, PA 19102
                              (215) 586-3751; (215) 359-2741 fax
                              stephanie@mensinglaw.com
                              Attorney for Plaintiff




                         10
