Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/65410955/1/porretta-v-city-of-philadelphia/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in Porretta v. CITY OF PHILADELPHIA (E.D. Pa., 2:22-cv-04026) – CourtListener.com

            Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 1 of 26




                           UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                         EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

                                             :
JENIFER PORRETTA                             :       CIVIL ACTION
                Plaintiff,                   :       NO. 22-4026
                                             :
-vs-                                         :
                                             :
CITY OF PHILADELPHIA                         :       PLAINTIFF REQUESTS
(PHILADELPHIA POLICE                         :       A TRIAL BY JURY
DEPARTMENT)                                  :
and                                          :
SERGEANT MCCLAIN                             :
and                                          :
SERGEANT CARTER                              :
and                                          :
CORPORAL MCGLACION                           :
and                                          :
CAPTAIN DRISSEL                              :
and                                          :
SERGANT CONWAY                               :
and                                          :
SHAWN HALL                                   :
                                             :
                       Defendants.           :
                                             :


       Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta (“Ms. Porretta” or “Plaintiff”), by and through undersigned

counsel hereby files this Civil Action Complaint against Defendants, City Of Philadelphia,

Sergeant McClain, Sergeant Carter, Corporal McGlacion, Captain Drissel, Sergant Conway

(collectively “Defendants”) and upon information and belief avers the following:

                                            PARTIES

       1.       Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta (“Ms. Porretta” or “Plaintiff”) is an adult female who

resides in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, within the City and County of Philadelphia.
             Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 2 of 26




        2.       Defendant, City of Philadelphia is a municipal corporation organized and existing

under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with an address for the purposes of service

at 1515 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

        3.       Defendant, Sergeant McClain (individually) is an adult individual who resides in

the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with a business address for the purposes of service at 1515

Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

        4.       At all times relevant to this Civil Action, Defendant McCain acted under color of

state law, as a Philadelphia Police Officer and subjected Plaintiff to violations of her rights afforded

to Plaintiff by the United States Constitution including but not limited to Plaintiff’s right to equal

protection under the law.

        5.       Defendant, Sergeant Carter (individually) is an adult individual who resides in the

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with a business address for the purposes of service at 1515 Arch

Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

        6.       At all times relevant to this Civil Action, Defendant Carter acted under color of

state law, as a Philadelphia Police Officer and subjected Plaintiff to violations of her rights afforded

to Plaintiff by the United States Constitution including but not limited to Plaintiff’s right to equal

protection under the law.

        7.       Defendant, Corporal McGlacion (individually) is an adult individual who resides in

the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with a business address for the purposes of service at 1515

Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

        8.       At all times relevant to this Civil Action, Defendant McGlacion acted under color

of state law, as a Philadelphia Police Officer and subjected Plaintiff to violations of her rights

afforded to Plaintiff by the United States Constitution including but not limited to Plaintiff’s right

to equal protection under the law.
             Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 3 of 26




        9.       Defendant, Captain Drissel (individually) is an adult individual who resides in the

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with a business address for the purposes of service at 1515 Arch

Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

        10.      At all times relevant to this Civil Action, Defendant Drissel acted under color of

state law, as a Philadelphia Police Officer and subjected Plaintiff to violations of her rights afforded

to Plaintiff by the United States Constitution including but not limited to Plaintiff’s right to equal

protection under the law.

        11.      Defendant, Sergant Conway (individually) is an adult individual who resides in the

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with a business address for the purposes of service at 1515 Arch

Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

        12.      At all times relevant to this Civil Action, Defendant Conway acted under color of

state law, as a Philadelphia Police Officer and subjected Plaintiff to violations of her rights afforded

to Plaintiff by the United States Constitution including but not limited to Plaintiff’s right to equal

protection under the law.

        13.      Defendant, Shawn Hall (individually) is an adult individual who resides in the

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with a business address for the purposes of service at 1515 Arch

Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

        14.      At all times relevant to this Civil Action, Defendant Shawn Hall acted under color

of state law, as a Philadelphia Police Officer and subjected Plaintiff to violations of her rights

afforded to Plaintiff by the United States Constitution including but not limited to Plaintiff’s right

to equal protection under the law.
          Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 4 of 26




                                     NATURE OF THE CASE

        15.     Plaintiff complains pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1983 based upon the continuing

violations of Plaintiffs’ rights under the Fourth, Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United

States Constitution and seeks damages to redress injuries Plaintiff suffered as a result of violations

of Plaintiff’s rights afforded by the United States Constitution, including the right to equal

protection under the laws.

                                  JURISDICTION AND VENUE

        16.     This action involves a Question of Federal Law under 42 U.S.C. § 1983.

        17.     The honorable Court also has supplemental jurisdiction over any claims pursuant

to the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and/or the City of Philadelphia.

        18.     Venue is proper in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania as Plaintiff was employed

by Defendants and worked in Philadelphia County where the constitutional violations of Plaintiff’s

rights occurred.

        19.     Plaintiff also intends to include counts for violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights

Act of 1964, the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (“PHRA”), and the Philadelphia Fair

Practices Ordinance (“PFPO”), once Plaintiff has exhausted her administrative remedies and is

entitled to file suit in court pursuant to those laws.

        20.     Plaintiff’s lawsuit under Section 1983 must be filed so Plaintiff preserves all rights

at this time, however, Plaintiff also intends to file a Charge of Discrimination with the EEOC, dual

filed with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission and the Philadelphia Commission on

Human Relations, pursuant to all acts that occurred within the statutory period for such filing.

        21.     Plaintiff intends to file an amended complaint as early as possible and once she has

exhausted her administrative remedies.
           Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 5 of 26




                                       MATERIAL FACTS

        22.    Plaintiff began her employment with the Philadelphia Police Department in August

2008.

        23.    Plaintiff is currently employment with Philadelphia Police Department and

continues to be subjected to adverse employment actions subject to Defendants severe and

pervasive discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

        24.     Plaintiff makes all claims here in under § 1983, which provides for a two-year

statute of limitations. Accordingly, all damages Plaintiff seeks are for injuries and damages

Plaintiff suffered as a result of illegal conduct that occurred between October 7, 2020, and the

present.

        25.    This lawsuit does involve background evidence that occurred prior to October 7,

2020, however, Plaintiff’s claims and the Counts below are only subject to those acts and illegal

conduct that occurred in the past two years.

        26.    Plaintiff first began employment with the Philadelphia Police Department (“PPD”)

in August 2008, as a Police Officer.

        27.    Plaintiff has been assigned to the 12th District since her employment began in 2008,

however, Plaintiff is currently detailed out of the 12th District as part of Defendants’ strategy of

discrimination and retaliation based on Plaintiff’s gender and in violation of Plaintiff’s rights to

equal protection under the laws.

        28.    Defendants have agreed that Defendants violated their own policies which are

premised upon employees’ rights under the United States Constitution and employees’ rights to

equal protection under the laws in order to subject Plaintiff to retaliation because of her gender.
          Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 6 of 26




       29.     Plaintiff is currently detailed to the main police building (headquarters) because

Plaintiff attempted to vindicate her Constitutional rights by reporting sexual harassment and

Defendants’ illegal conduct which was based on Plaintiff’s sex and gender.

       30.     From 2008 until the present Plaintiff has been assigned to the 12th District without

any transfers, however, Plaintiff has not worked in the 12th District since January 2021, because

of Defendants violation of Plaintiff’s Constitutional rights including the right to equal protection,

due process, substantive due process.

       31.     Every violation of Plaintiff’s constitutional rights occurred under color of state law

by employees of the City of Philadelphia.

       32.     The first time that Plaintiff was subjected to sexual harassment in the workplace

was by Defendant, Shawn Hall who is another Officer.

       33.     Defendant, Shawn Hall subjected Plaintiff to nonstop continuing sexual advances

including writing letters to Plaintiff that graphically described Defendant, Shawn Hall’s sexual

advances, sexual harassment in the workplace, and refusal to consider Plaintiff’s rights under the

United States Constitution.

       34.     Defendant, Shawn Hall’s sexual harassment occurred while Shawn Hall was on

duty, in uniform, at work, and while Shawn Hall was acting under color of state law.

       35.     Defendant Shawn Hall detailed in writing the sexual harassment where Defendant,

Shawn Hall explained that he did not care that Plaintiff was in a serious relationship with an

individual who later became Plaintiff’s husband.

       36.     Plaintiff’s significant other was also a PPD Police Officer who worked with

Plaintiff and Defendant, Shawn Hall, in the 12th District.

       37.     Defendant, Shawn Hall knew that Plaintiff and her significant other were

romantically involved in a serious and permanent relationship, but stated in writing that Defendant,
          Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 7 of 26




Shawn Hall did not care and intended to continue signaling Plaintiff out because of her sex and

gender and subject Plaintiff to discrimination and harassment in the workplace in violation of

Plaintiff’s rights under the United States Constitution.

        38.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote in one letter that he “missed [Plaintiff] so much” and

that he intended to give Plaintiff a “hand, arm, head, and shoulder massage” and that Defendant,

Shawn Hall “lov[ed] [Plaintiff] so very much…” A copy of this letter is attached and marked

Exhibit A.

        39.     In another letter, Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote that Plaintiff was one of the only

people who could “put up with me on a daily basis” and promised Plaintiff that “I’m not going to

hurt you anymore” and wrote that “7-22-11” was the “last day I’m going to hurt you.” A copy of

the letter is attached as Exhibit B.

        40.     Defendant, Shawn Hall did not stop hurting Plaintiff because of her gender on July

22, 2011, but continued to hurt Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s gender until 2021, and for years in

between July 22, 2011, and 2021. Exhibit B.

        41.     Defendant, Shawn Hall also wrote that Plaintiff did “too much for [Shawn Hall] to

treat [Plaintiff] that way.” Exhibit B.

        42.     Defendant, Shawn Hall also wrote “I do love you with all of my heart and I will

love you under the day I die.” Exhibit B.

        43.     At the time, Defendant, Shawn Hall was Plaintiff’s partner and Plaintiff was forced

to work with Defendant, Shawn Hall on a daily basis while Defendant, Shawn Hall violated

Plaintiff’s rights, while on duty, in uniform, under color of state law.

        44.     Defendant, Shawn Hall finished this writing with, “you are sexy as hell.” Exhibit

B.
          Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 8 of 26




       45.     In another letter Defendant, Shawn Hall continued the sex and gender

discrimination and continued to subject Plaintiff to violations of her rights under the United States

Constitution, under color of state law, with threatening statements including, “I want to cherish

every moment were together because you never know how many more you have.” A copy of this

letter is attached as Exhibit C.

       46.     This letter was entitled, “you’re my beautiful surprise” and contained the

inscription, “… all I can do is promise to love you with all my heart the best way I can.” Exhibit

C.

       47.     In another letter, Defendant, Shawn wrote, “I love you … you are my pooh bear

and I will dance like this when this is all behind us.” A copy of the letter is attached as Exhibit

D.

       48.       In another letter, Defendant, Shawn wrote, “… I have never wanted anything in

my life as much as I want you. I am losing my mind to think that I have to wait for the right time

to call you mine. When the day comes that we’re together I want you to know that I will love you

always…” A copy of the letter is attached as Exhibit E.

       49.     Defendant, Shawn Hall continued to subject Plaintiff to sexual harassment in the

workplace writing, “I have only one fear and that is that you will tell me that you can’t see us as

nothing more than friends. I am sure you will be with me one day as sure as I’m sitting here.

Exhibit E.

       50.     Defendant, Shawn Hall’s letter (Exhibit E) took a dark and threating tone, just like

many other letters Defendant, Shawn Hall penned, stating, “If you think back to all that I told

you I was going to do and did it what makes you think I’m not going to have you.” Exhibit

E.
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 9 of 26




       51.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “I am on god’s good side and he gives me all that

I want and desire.” Exhibit E.

       52.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “… the day when I’m not with you kill me because

I am usually not happy until I am with you. I find myself daydreaming of holding you tight,

kissing you deeply, and dominating that body of yours.” Exhibit E.

       53.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “my love is so far gone and deep in the abyss of my

heart that it will be there forever. So many guys’ hearts have been ripped out by you but yet you

have not told me to stop so the hope is there.” Exhibit E.

       54.     A simple review of the letters written by Defendant, Shawn Hall confirms that

Plaintiff never engaged Defendant, Shawn Hall in a sexual or romantic relationship, and Plaintiff

made it clear from the outset of the sexual harassment that Plaintiff was seriously engaged in

another relationship (Plaintiff’s now husband and Defendant, Shawn Hall’s coworker in the 12th

District), however, Defendant, Shawn Hall laughed at Plaintiff’s rejections and continued the

nonstop, severe and pervasive sexual harassment.

       55.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “You may be waiting for me to stop on my own

but I won’t and when the day comes when I’m on top of you and you’re pinned under me

I’ll only say I told you so because god known I won’t be denied what’s mine.” Exhibit E.

       56.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote in another letter, describing the way in which

Defendant, Shawn Hall was hurting Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta, writing, … nobody should hurt you

that way you are way too special. I have been guilty once or twice for treating you like shit but I

woke up to you and can’t do it again.” A copy of this letter is attached as Exhibit F.

       57.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “… you will be my fantasy forever…” Exhibit F.

       58.     In another letter from Defendant, Shawn Hall to Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta,

Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “I can’t believe how much I have come to love you in a short
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 10 of 26




period of time. … You are one of the sexiest women I have ever known and will ever know. …

Everything I have said has come true so believe me once again when I say that you will be mine

someday. …” A copy of this letter is attached as Exhibit G.

       59.     In another letter from Defendant, Shawn Hall to Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta,

Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, while on duty, working, “As I sit here next to you staring at your

beauty I can’t help but think that my heart is filled with both joy and sadness. … Sadness

because there’s nothing I can do to quench this hunger I have for you. …” A copy of this

letter is attached as Exhibit H.

       60.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “To say I love you would be robbing the word of

its meaning … Its more I think that I am obsessed with you. I eat, sleep, and relax to the

thought of you. But it’s also getting difficult to sit here next to you on a daily basis and not

being able to do the thinks I want to you.” Exhibit H.

       61.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote about Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta’s husband, writing,

“As I was trying to sleep last night I started to think about you and Joe (Plaintiff’s husband) and

realized I am starting to get in the way. When I speak to you about Joe and make fun of him that

is my coping mechanism for the jealousy I have toward him for living the reality that I only have

in my dreams.” Exhibit H.

       62.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “they say it is better to have loved and lost than

never to have loved at all but you were never mine to lose so I’ll just love you from a distance.

Exhibit H.

       63.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “… you have broken me. But now I need to

withdraw from you before my heart gets to a place from which there is no return… Exhibit H.
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 11 of 26




       64.     Defendant, Shawn Hall never withdrew or discontinued the sexual harassment at

the time he wrote (Exhibit H) and continued past 2021 to subject Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta to

severe and pervasive sexual harassment in the workplace.

       65.     Defendant, Shawn Hall moved from the 12th District many years later for a

temporary period of time, when Defendant, Shawn Hall attempted to become a detective in the

PPD, however, Defendants moved Defendant, Shawn Hall right back to the 12th District, despite

Plaintiff’s many reports of sexual harassment and the mountain of evidence that Defendant,

Shawn Hall was consistently subjecting Plaintiff to violations of her rights under the United

States Constitution and right to equal protection under the laws.

       66.     Defendant, Shawn Hall continued the sexual harassment and signaling Plaintiff

out for discrimination and harassment based upon Plaintiff’s gender.

       67.     Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote in another letter, “I promise you I will not leave you

again because it hurt bad not to have you. So in closing I want you to know that no matter who

you are with or the amount of time you are with him you most definitely belong to me, mind

body and sold and one day you will realize it.” A copy of this letter is attached as Exhibit I.

       68.     In another letter from Defendant, Shawn Hall to Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta,

Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “I still love you a lot but this time its different its more of like a

sister and best friend. … You probably thought you would never get a card again but surprise

here it is it’s a “friend” card. … I bet you thought I would change it up once I realized you and

Joe were staying together but what kind of friend would I be if I did that. So again you will

never get rid of me my friend and besides Joe may have your body but friendship is forever…”

A copy of this letter is attached and marked Exhibit J.

       69.     In another letter from Defendant, Shawn Hall to Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta,

Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “Just a realistic reminder that you’re the most beautiful person I
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 12 of 26




know and your ass is unbelievable. I love you and don’t know what else to say. You are

unbelievable and your body is the stuff of legends. I want to fuck you so bad I’m speechless.

Scale of 1 – 10 you’re a 50. Love you. You will be mine.” A copy of this letter is attached and

marked Exhibit K.

       70.     In another letter from Defendant, Shawn Hall to Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta,

Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “… I hit the Powerball that second week of October when I met

you. Although my intentions in the beginning were not good, the more I got to know the real

Jen, I realized how much I do love you. You say it’s not possible to love two people but I’m

proof you can.” A copy of this letter is attached and marked Exhibit L.

       71.     In another letter from Defendant, Shawn Hall to Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta,

Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “The thought of me making you feel bad turns my stomach. There

is no way my intentions were bad, but for the way I made you feel I am sorry. … I will always

love you and your children. … When the day comes when God takes me over, hopefully you will

take your time, because as a song goes I’ll grab a bench and wait for you because I want and

need you like my heart needs another beat and my lungs need another breath. A copy of this

letter is attached and marked Exhibit M.

       72.     In another letter from Defendant, Shawn Hall to Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta,

Defendant, Shawn Hall wrote, “My love for you is far more than I ever expected it to be. You

are that special to me. I can never give you up. You are a permanent or permanent part of me

and my heart. I will never give up hope of being with you. I am glad you are happy with Joe

and you’re doing good in your relationship. But if it doesn’t work I’ll always be there for you.

You could do worse than me. You are extremely sexy and I love to look at you and daydream of

what could be. … I Love you very much and I’m holding onto my dream (you).” A copy of this

letter is attached and marked Exhibit N.
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 13 of 26




       73.     Defendant, Shawn Hall openly subjected Plaintiff, Officer, Jenifer Porretta to

sexual harassment, without any attempt to conceal the sexual harassment, gender discrimination,

and nonstop abuse to which Plaintiff was subjected on a daily basis because of her gender and

sex.

       74.     Defendants were well aware that the City of Philadelphia and the PPD would take

no meaningful action in response to reports of sexual harassment and that it was open season on

female police officers in the department without repercussion or consequence. This was the

City’s unofficial policy, custom, and practice and the City was deliberately indifferent to the

rights of female officers in the department.

       75.     Defendant, Shawn Hall left heart-shaped love letters around for Plaintiff, Officer,

Jenifer Porretta to find while working. These heart-shaped letters contained handwritten sex-

based admissions including, “I love you pooh bear” and “hope all your dreams and desires come

true baby girl” and “I love you you’re doing wonderful me and God have all that you seek” and

“how were you able to steal my heart so quickly” and “really I do” and “It’s not about me

anymore. I want to do everything in my power to give you the dreams of your life. My dream is

working itself out.” A copy of these handwritten notes from Defendant, Shawn Hall are attached

and marked Exhibit O.

       76.     Defendant, Shawn Hall continued to subject Plaintiff, Officer Jenifer Porretta to

severe and pervasive sexual harassment and gender discrimination in the workplace under color

of state law. Defendant, Shawn Hall left notes everywhere for Jenifer Porretta to find while both

Defendant, Shawn Hall and Plaintiff were working on the clock and in full uniform.

       77.     Defendant, Shawn Hall left countless of these handwritten notes for Plaintiff

including the following:

               a. “Jenner the most beautiful girl in the world.”
          Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 14 of 26




               b. “This much you are my dream come true.”

               c. “To my future woman I love you sexy.”

               d. “Baby girl.”

               e. “Jen you are the light at the end of this very dark tunnel Love ya Pooh bear.”

               f. “Baby girl sexy ass.”

               g. “Sexy Jenny.”

               h. “The love of my life sexy ass.”

               i. “Jen the true princess of my life I love you.”

               j. “Sugar Mama.”

               k. “Jen my sugar mama from heaven.”

               l. “To my princess Love you.”

               m. “To my very special and sexy girl with that awesome body.”

               n. “To my beautiful body.”

       78.     The “Joey” referred to by Defendant, Shawn Hall was Defendant, Shawn Hall’s

coworker and police officer in the same 12th District where Plaintiff and Defendant, Shawn Hall

worked.

       79.     For every letter, handwritten note, or card that Defendant, Shawn Hall gave to

Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta, Defendant, Shawn Hall also subjected Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta to

sexual harassment through comments or conduct.

       80.     The comments and conduct to which Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta was subjected by

Defendant, Shawn Hall was nonstop and went on for year after year after year without respite

and without any investigation into Defendant, Shawn Hall’s nonstop, continuous sexual

harassment and gender discrimination in the workplace.
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 15 of 26




       81.     Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta engaged in protected activity on numerous occasions

and reported the sexual harassment, however, Defendant, Shawn Hall had absolutely no fear that

Defendant, City of Philadelphia/Philadelphia Police Department would do anything to

investigate or ameliorate the severe and pervasive comments and conduct.

       82.     Defendant, Shawn Hall was right not to fear repercussions from Defendant, City

of Philadelphia and the PPD, because the City of Philadelphia and the PPD has spent decades

covering up reports of sexual harassment and publishing female officers who reported sexual

harassment in the workplace.

       83.     Defendant, City of Philadelphia and the PPD has spent so much time covering up

sexual harassment, protecting the sexual harassers and the sexual assaulters, and punishing

female officers for engaging in protected activity that the City of Philadelphia and the PPD had

essentially adopted the official policy that any women who tried to report sexual harassment

would be punished.

       84.     Sexual harassment was severe and pervasive throughout the City of Philadelphia’s

PPD, and the PPD maintained a policy to protect the harassers and punish the victims of

harassment.

       85.     This is the reason that Defendant, Shawn Hall had no compunction whatsoever

with well documenting his sexual harassment and sex and gender discrimination through

countless handwritten letters, notes and cards.

       86.     Defendant, Shawn Hall knew full well that there was little to nothing that

Plaintiff, Jenifer could do to get help from the City of Philadelphia or the PPD.

       87.     The PPD official policy toward women who try to report sexual harassment in the

workplace may not be written but through custom and practice is well known.
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 16 of 26




       88.     The PPD’s official policy through custom and practice is to punish the women

who are sexually harassed and to protect the harassers.

       89.     The PPD executes this policy, custom, and practice by promoting the harassers or

refusing to take any action against the harassers.

       90.     The PPD executes this policy, custom, and practice by punishing the women

including Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta and changing the terms and conditions of employment for the

women who come forward and report the harassment.

       91.     This is exactly what occurred when Plaintiff reported the sexual harassment.

       92.     Plaintiff was forced to continue working with those who had subjected Plaintiff to

harassment, abuse and retaliation, and Plaintiff was outright mocked and laughed at by the same

people who subjected Plaintiff to harassment and abuse.

       93.     Defendant, Shawn Hall constantly spoke about Plaintiff’s body parts and being

sexy, from 2010 on, and sometime around 2020, the City of Philadelphia and the PPD brought

Defendant, Shawn Hall back to the 12th District and assigned Defendant, Shawn Hall to work on

the same squad as Plaintiff, Jenifer Porretta so that the harassment and the abuse began again.

       94.     Plaintiff engaged in protected activity and reported the ongoing harassment and

abuse sometime around December 2020 and Defendants subjected Plaintiff to multiple adverse

employment actions by forcing Plaintiff to change the terms and conditions of her employment

and taking no action against Defendant, Shawn Hall.

       95.     Of course this is perfectly in line with the way that the City of Philadelphia and

the PPD had responded to sexual harassment for decades. This was the PPD’s policy, practice,

and custom.
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 17 of 26




       96.     Even after Defendants were on express and actual notice regarding all of

Defendant, Shawn Hall’s illegal conduct and comments, Defendants allowed Defendant, Shawn

Hall to be promoted.

       97.     Defendant, Shawn Hall took a promotional test to become a detective and was

transferred to the First District but he was transferred back to the 12th District as soon as

Defendant, Shawn Hall abandoned his attempt to be a detective.

       98.       Plaintiff’s husband informed the then Lieutenant Ruff, who was the Lieutenant

in the 12th District at that time, asking why is Defendant, Shawn Hall back here and back in

direct contact with Jenifer Porretta.

       99.     Defendant, Shawn Hall should not have been within a mile of Plaintiff if

Defendants had even inkling of a policy designed to eliminate sexual harassment in the

workplace.

       100.    Plaintiff filed an EEO and EEOC complaint about Defendant, Shawn Hall where

all of the letters, notes and cards as well as the conduct and comments were made known to

Defendants.

       101.     Plaintiff also notified Captain Driscol but Defendant, Shawn Hall continued in

the 12th District and Plaintiff continued to be subjected to a hostile work environment extending

past October 2020 and far into 2021.

       102.    Defendant, Shawn Hall was not only assigned to the 12th District but also

assigned to the same squad as Plaintiff.

       103.    The entire time, Plaintiff continues to be subjected to sexual harassment and

Defendant, Shawn Hall is telling Plaintiff both in writing and verbally that he does not care about

Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s husband’s feelings and he continues to subject Plaintiff to sexual
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 18 of 26




harassment from 2010 until 2021 – with the only period of time without nonstop abuse when

Defendant, Shawn Hall was assigned to the First District.

       104.    Plaintiff engaged in protected activity multiple times at the end of 2020 –

beginning of 2021, by reporting Defendant, Shawn Hall, including but not limited to reports to

Internal Affairs (“IA”).

       105.    Plaintiff was singled out and treated differently because of her reports.

       106.    Plaintiff was injured because the 12th district punished Plaintiff because of her

reports and because Plaintiff engaged in protected activity.

       107.    Defendant, Shawn Hall begins the sexual harassment again in January 2020 and

this continued through the time when Plaintiff was detailed out of the 12th district to Police Head

Quarters.

       108.    Plaintiff being detailed out of the 12th District was an adverse employment action

which significantly interf3ered with Plaintiff’s work environment including hours, ability to

work overtime and ability to earn income.

       109.    Plaintiff, not Defendant, Shawn Hall was detailed out of the 12th District due to

Plaintiff engaging in protected activity.

       110.    The first time that Plaintiff was detailed out of the 12th District because of

Plaintiff’s reports of discrimination and harassment in the workplace was December 2020.

       111.    Sometime around December 2020, Plaintiff is detailed to Court Attendance.

       112.    In being detailed to court attendance Plaintiff’s life was thrown into upheaval.

       113.    Plaintiff was the subject of abusive, ridicule, and scorn due to Plaintiff’s new

reports of discrimination and harassment in the workplace by Defendant, Shawn Halland now by

Defendant, Sergeant McCain too.
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 19 of 26




       114.    Sometime around mid-2020, Defendant, McCain subjected Plaintiff to sexual

harassment.

       115.    Then Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s husband, Joseph Porretta Jr. reported to Lieutenant

Ruff how wrong it was for the sexual harassment to start back up again from the same person

who had harassed Plaintiff for years.

       116.    This is when the campaign of retaliation became intolerable.

       117.    After Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s husband reported the harassment, Plaintiff is moved

from 1B to last out and Defendant, Shawn Hall is not moved.

       118.    Then after Plaintiff is moved to last out, to get away from Defendant, Shawn Hall,

Defendant, Shawn Hall moved to 2 squad which moved him back closer to Plaintiff.

       119.    None of this would have been an issue had Defendants not moved Defendant,

Shawn Hall back to the same District where Plaintiff had worked since 2008.

       120.    Also now Defendant Shawn Hall was doing overtime in last out squad and

Plaintiff is forced to work directly with Defendant, Shawn Hall again after the years and years

and years of abuse.

       121.    Defendant, McCain begins to subject Plaintiff to sexual harassment sometime

around December 29, 2020 – Plaintiff is 3b squad.

       122.    Sometime around December 30, 2020, Plaintiff reports issues related to sexual

harassment and retaliation to IA.

       123.    Sergeant Carter then begins to subject Plaintiff to a campaign of retaliation which

led to Plaintiff being physically injured in the workplace.

       124.    When Plaintiff gets moved, she is now working with Sergeant Carter.
           Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 20 of 26




          125.   The first day that Plaintiff gets to last out Plaintiff gets a call from Sergeant Carter

over the radio directing Plaintiff to take headquarters. This means that Carter wants to speak to

Plaintiff at headquarters.

          126.   Plaintiff arrived at headquarters and Defendant, Carter says “you failed to comply

with MPO which is Municipal Police Training and so you have to work in plain clothes and took

Plaintiff’s gun.

          127.   This was retaliation.

          128.   Defendant, Carter said you cannot get your gun until you qualify, however,

because of COVID everything was shut down and so Plaintiff had to work inside in street

clothes.

          129.   Defendant, Carter kept saying you are probably going to have to go to Harrisburg.

“Go to Harrisburg” means requalify for the entire police test which takes a lot of time.

          130.   There were other officers who kept their guns and they were in the same position

as Plaintiff.

          131.   At or around that time that Plaintiff worked at headquarters in street clothes,

Defendant, McClain subjected Plaintiff to abusive, sexual comments about Plaintiff’s ass and

breast.

          132.   Defendant, McCain began subjecting Plaintiff to severe and pervasive sex-based

comments and conduct, telling Plaintiff about sex and sexual conquests and graphically

describing sex and sex acts and getting blow jobs.

          133.   Defendant, McCain said that when he goes to Thailand he “likes the boy-toys”

and that he “likes to have sex with the young Thai boys.”

          134.   Defendant, McCain also told Plaintiff, “I like girls and I like when your titties

bounce”
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 21 of 26




       135.    Defendant, McCain also told Plaintiff, “I like your thick ass”

       136.    Defendant, McCain also told Plaintiff, “I like girls with thick asses”

       137.    Defendant, McCain also told Plaintiff, “I like blowjobs.”

       138.    Defendant McCain also told Plaintiff “we used to get blowjobs at headquarters all

the time” and “I used to fuck at headquarters all the time”.

       139.    There is nonstop ongoing comments of this nature from Defendant, McCain to

which Plaintiff was subjected between January 2020 and January 2021.

       140.    And in December 2020, Plaintiff reports this to internal affairs in addition to

reports about Defendant, Shawn Hall.

       141.    When Plaintiff filed the internal affairs complaint in December 2020 about

McCain, Defendant, Carter got involved and subjected Plaintiff to retaliation.

       142.    Sometime around January 2, 2021, during roll call Defendant, Sergeant Carter

subjected Plaintiff to retaliation and said in front of everyone – “keep in mind that when you

throw a supervisor under the bus, you are going to have a problem with other supervisors.”

       143.    This was a threat that Sergeant Carter carried out against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff

engaging in protected activity.

       144.    Defendant, Sergeant Carter represents everything that is wrong with the

Philadelphia Police Department and with Police Departments across the United States.

       145.    Defendant, Sergeant Carter openly expressed his position that it is more important

to defend fellow officers who break the law, than to protect victims of same abuse perpetrated by

those very officers.

       146.    Defendant Sergeant Carter said in words or substance, “anytime you fuck with a

supervisor, you are going to have a problem. I don’t give a fuck who you are, you don’t fuck

with the supervisors.”
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 22 of 26




       147.    Defendant, Carter said, “you don’t throw supervisors under the bus.”

       148.    So after Plaintiff engaged in protected activity, sometime around the end of 2020,

Defendant, Carter began a campaign of retaliation against Plaintiff.

       149.    Defendant, Sergeant Carter began making comments to Plaintiff about retaliation

and about Plaintiff throwing McCain under the bus.

       150.    Defendant, McCain made comments against Plaintiff in front of other police

officers in the days following Plaintiff’s reports to IA in December 2020.

       151.    From there on, Defendant, Carter attacked Plaintiff about everything in a

campaign of retaliation designed to make Plaintiff regret the day when Plaintiff engaged in

protected activity and reported McCain.

       152.    Defendant, Carter made comments to Plaintiff of a sexual nature including telling

Plaintiff that he heard that Latino women are crazy in bed.

       153.    Defendant, Carter stated, “I heard that you are wild.”

       154.    Defendant, Carter was furious with Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s reports of

discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

       155.    Defendant, Sergeant Carter saw Plaintiff after Plaintiff was detailed out of the 12th

District and he and his brother laughed in Plaintiff’s face about the fact that Plaintiff reported

sexual harassment and only Plaintiff was punished for her reports.

       156.    Plaintiff reported this to her corporal at that time who was Corporal Ptsis and

Corporal Ptsis did nothing and told Plaintiff in words or substance, “I retire in 6 months and I do

not want any problems. So don’t bring this to me. You do what you got to do.”

       157.    Plaintiff was first detailed to Court attendance in 2021 – this was another adverse

employment action.
             Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 23 of 26




         158.    There are time checks when Defendant, Carter would not allow Plaintiff to be

relieved from duty.

         159.    Defendant, Carter threatened Plaintiff at role call in front of all the other officers,

stating in words or substance, “you want to throw time checks out there. You think you are

going to fuck with me with time checks. Don’t be surprised if you don’t have any back up out

there. Don’t be surprised if you call for back up and nobody responds.”

         160.    This was a blatant threat that was made against Plaintiff in front of the officers at

roll call.

         161.    As a result of Defendants’ conduct Plaintiff has been extremely humiliated, degraded,

victimized, embarrassed, and emotionally distressed.

         162.    As a result of Defendants’ conduct Plaintiff was subjected to discriminatory treatment and

retaliation, and continues to suffer severe emotional distress and physical ailments.

         163.    As a result of Defendants’ conduct Plaintiff has been subjected to discriminatory and

retaliatory conduct, and suffers from regular panic attacks. Plaintiff has difficulty sleeping and eating.

         164.    Defendants conduct has been malicious, willful, outrageous, and conducted with full

knowledge of the law, and Plaintiff demands Punitive Damages against all Defendants jointly and severally.

         165.    Defendants have established a pattern and practice of discrimination, retaliation, and

harassment through their actions

         166.    The discrimination and retaliation will continue beyond the date of this complaint, and as

such, Plaintiff makes a claim for all continuing future harassment and retaliation.

         167.    The above are just some of the examples of unlawful and discrimination and retaliation to

which Plaintiff was subjected.

         168.    As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff was caused to sustain serious and

permanent personal injuries, including permanent psychological injuries.
          Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 24 of 26




        169.     Plaintiff suffers from anxiety, fear, and nightmares relating to Defendants and Defendants’

employees conduct. Plaintiff is unable to sleep or eat.

        170.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff has been humiliated, degraded,

victimized, embarrassed and emotionally distressed.

        171.     As a result of the acts and conduct complained of herein, Plaintiff has suffered

and will continue to suffer a loss of income, a loss of salary, bonuses, benefits and other

compensation, which such employment entails. Plaintiff has also suffered future pecuniary

losses, emotional pain, humiliation, suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other

non-pecuniary losses. Plaintiff has further experienced severe emotional and physical distress.

        172.     Plaintiff claims a continuous practice of discrimination and claims a continuing

violation and makes all claims herein under the continuing violations doctrine.

        173.     The Defendants have exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination

but also retaliation.

        174.     Plaintiff claims that Defendants discriminated against Plaintiff because of

Plaintiff’s sex and gender and because Plaintiff complained and opposed the unlawful conduct of

Defendants related to Plaintiff’s protected class.

        175.     Plaintiff further claims aggravation, activation, and exacerbation of any pre-

existing condition.

        176.     Plaintiff claims unlawful constructive discharge and/or unlawful actual discharge

and also seeks reinstatement.

                                         COUNT I
                                     42 U.S.C. §1983
                    VIOLATIONS OF EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE
                RIGHT TO DUE PROCESS AND SUBSTANTIVE DUE PROCESS
                              (against all named Defendants)
          Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 25 of 26




        177.     Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the foregoing paragraphs

as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        178.     42 U.S.C. Section 1983 stated:

            “Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom,
            or usage, of any State or Territory or the District of Columbia, subjects, or
            causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person within
            the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or
            immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party
            injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for
            redress, except that in any action brought against a judicial officer for an act
            or omission taken in such officer’s judicial capacity, injunctive relief shall
            not be granted unless a declaratory decree was violated or declaratory relief
            was unavailable. For the purposes of this section, any Act of Congress
            applicable exclusively to the District of Columbia shall be considered to be a
            statute of the District of Columbia.”

        177.     Defendants and their employees and agents violated Plaintiffs’ First, Fifth, Fourth and

Fourteenth Amendment rights, including the right to equal protection under the laws.

        178.     Defendants acted under color of state law to violate the plaintiff's rights to equal protection

and due process of law.

        179.     Defendants’ unlawful actions were done with the specific intent to deprive Plaintiff of her

constitutional right to be free from unreasonable seizer and to enjoy equal protection under the laws.

        180.     Defendants also violated Plaintiff’s rights under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of

1964 through discrimination and retaliation for reporting said discrimination.

        181.     All individual Defendants acted under color of state law at all times relevant to

this civil action.

        182.     The City of Philadelphia is liable under Section 1983 under Monell.


                                             JURY DEMAND

Plaintiff requests a jury trial on all issues to be tried.
         Case 2:22-cv-04026-KBH Document 1 Filed 10/07/22 Page 26 of 26




                                    PRAYER FOR RELIEF



       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment against Defendants, jointly and severally,

in an amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, punitive damages, liquidated

damages, statutory damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements of action; and for such

other relief as the Court deems just and proper.



                                                   DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC


                                               By: ____/s/ Seth D. Carson____________
                                                    Seth D. Carson, Esquire
                                                    1845 Walnut Street, Suite 1600
                                                    Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
                                                    Phone: 215.391.4790
                                                    Email: seth@dereksmithlaw.com


DATED: October 7, 2022
