Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/65394545/1/summers-v-extrity-llc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in SUMMERS v. EXTRITY, LLC (E.D. Pa., 2:22-cv-03918) – CourtListener.com

           Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 1 of 35




               IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
            FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


DIJON SUMMERS,                                JURY TRIAL DEMANDED

                      Plaintiff,              Civ. No. _____________

v.

EXTRITY, LLC, DAVID H.
COLEMAN d/b/a EXTRITY
SERVICES, and JOHN DOE
DEFENDANTS 1-10,

                      Defendants.


                                    COMPLAINT

      Plaintiff, Dijon Summers (“Plaintiff”), by and through his counsel, Mobilio

Wood, files the instant Complaint against Defendants, Extrity, LLC (“Extrity”),

David H. Coleman d/b/a Extrity Services (“Coleman”) (collectively, the

“Employer Defendants”), and John Doe Defendants 1-10, averring in support

thereof as follows:

                                    Introduction

      1.      This cause of action arises out of Plaintiff’s former joint employment

with the Employer Defendants.

      2.      Plaintiff is a transgender male. Plaintiff asserts claims and seeks

monetary damages for hostile work environment, discrimination, and retaliation, in
           Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 2 of 35




violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §

2000e et seq. Plaintiff also asserts state law claims for negligent hiring, retention,

and supervision, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and civil conspiracy.

      3.      As further described herein, the Employer Defendants intentionally

and systematically deprived Plaintiff of his federally protected rights by, among

other things, repeatedly “outing” Plaintiff’s gender identity to a number of his

coworkers without his consent.

      4.      As a result, one such coworker who learned of Plaintiff’s gender

identity, Lamere Nathaniel (“Nathaniel”), began openly voicing threats to “fuck

up” and “kill” Plaintiff due to the fact that he was transgender.

      5.      Nathaniel is a violent, convicted criminal who had engaged in a

pattern of misconduct demonstrating his disregard for human life and safety prior

to his employment with the Employer Defendants, including committing sexual

assault, robbery, and carrying a firearm without a license.

      6.      What is worse, the Employer Defendants’ Director of Operations was

explicitly alerted to Nathaniel’s transphobic threats against Plaintiff’s life, but

outright ignored the warning.

      7.      Due to the Employer Defendants’ failure to take corrective action,

Nathaniel brutally assaulted Plaintiff in the workplace, causing severe injuries to

Plaintiff and necessitating him to seek immediate medical treatment.


                                           2
           Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 3 of 35




      8.      Following Nathaniel’s assault on Plaintiff, Plaintiff returned to work,

where, quite incredibly, the Employer Defendants continued to “out” him to

additional coworkers who were not aware of his gender identity.

      9.      Plaintiff thereafter faced additional transphobic slurs from his

colleagues, and was nearly assaulted for a second time during his shift.

      10.     Plaintiff eventually voiced concern to the Employer Defendants about

their discriminatory conduct, and was terminated the very next day.

      11.     Following Plaintiff’s termination, employees and/or agents of the

Employer Defendants sent a series of threatening text message communications to

Plaintiff – including unequivocal threats to kill Plaintiff – which were meant, at

least in part, to dissuade Plaintiff from pursuing the instant action.

      12.     As a result of Defendants’ unlawful conduct, Plaintiff has been

harmed.

                                        Parties

      13.     Plaintiff is an adult individual and citizen of the Commonwealth of

Pennsylvania, and is a former joint employee of Defendants Extrity and Coleman.

      14.     Defendant Extrity is a Delaware limited liability company that

operates a security services company located at 1601 Market St., 19th Floor,

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.




                                           3
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 4 of 35




      15.    Defendant Coleman is an adult individual doing business under a

Pennsylvania fictitious name, “Extrity Services”, who operates a security services

company located at 1601 Market St., 19th Floor, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

19103.

      16.    John Doe Defendants 1-10 is a person or persons whose identities are

presently unknown. Plaintiff believes that discovery in this action will unveil the

true identities of John Doe Defendants 1-10.

      17.    At all times relevant and material herein, the Employer Defendants

acted by and through their ostensible and/or actual agents, servants, workmen

and/or employees.

                              Jurisdiction and Venue

      18.    This Court has jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s federal claims in

accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 1331 because this civil action arises under a law of

the United States and seeks redress for violations of a federal law. This Court has

jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s state law claims because they are supplemental to

Plaintiff’s underlying federal claims and derive from a common nucleus of

operative facts pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1367.

      19.    This Court may properly maintain personal jurisdiction over

Defendants because Defendants’ contacts with this Commonwealth and this




                                          4
           Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 5 of 35




judicial district are sufficient for the exercise of jurisdiction over Defendants to

comply with traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.

       20.     Venue is properly laid in this judicial district pursuant to

28 U.S.C. § 1391, as a substantial part of the acts or omissions giving rise to the

claims alleged herein occurred within this judicial district, and Defendants are

subject to personal jurisdiction in this district.

                       Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies

       21.     On or around July 8, 2022, Plaintiff dual-filed a Charge of

Discrimination with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”)

and Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”) against the Employer

Defendants, alleging that the Employer Defendants unlawfully discriminated

against him on the basis of his gender identity, and retaliated against him for

engaging in protected activity, in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of

1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq. (“Title VII”), and the Pennsylvania

Human Relations Act, as amended, 43 P.S. § 951 et seq. (“PHRA”).

       22.     On August 17, 2022, the EEOC issued a Notice of Right to Sue to

Plaintiff. 1


1
 Plaintiff intends to file a motion for leave to amend the instant Complaint to
assert claims for violation of the PHRA against the Employer Defendants
following the expiration of 12 months from the date on which he dual-filed his
Charge of Discrimination with the PHRC.


                                            5
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 6 of 35




                                 Factual Allegations

A.    Plaintiff’s Supervisor “Outs” Him to His Coworkers, Resulting in
      Plaintiff Being Harassed and Threatened Due to His Gender Identity

      23.     Plaintiff is a transgender male.

      24.     Plaintiff was hired by the Employer Defendants in February 2022 as a

security guard.

      25.     When Plaintiff was hired, he was not provided with any anti-

harassment, anti-discrimination, or complaint-reporting training and/or policies of

any nature.

      26.     Around the time of Plaintiff’s hire, the Southeastern Pennsylvania

Transportation Authority (“SEPTA”) contracted with the Employer Defendants for

the provision of security services.

      27.     Plaintiff was thereafter staffed as a security guard at various rail lines

operated by SEPTA throughout the City of Philadelphia.

      28.     Soon after Plaintiff was hired, his supervisor, William Bates

(“Bates”), learned that Plaintiff was transgender, and “outed” Plaintiff to several

of his coworkers.2




2
  Outing is the act of disclosing an LGBT person’s sexual orientation or gender
identity without that person’s consent.


                                            6
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 7 of 35




      29.    Bates verbally advised numerous employees that Plaintiff was

transgender, and also displayed social media content suggesting that Plaintiff was

transgender to several employees.

      30.    One of the Employer Defendants’ employees who learned of

Plaintiff’s gender identity was his coworker, Lamere Nathaniel (“Nathaniel”).

      31.    After learning that Plaintiff was transgender, Nathaniel began openly

voicing transphobic comments about Plaintiff, including referring to Plaintiff as a

“tranny.”

      32.    Even more troubling, Nathaniel began broadcasting threats to commit

acts of violence against Plaintiff due to his gender identity.

      33.    More specifically, Nathaniel continually boasted that he planned to

“fuck [Plaintiff] up,” and that he was “going to end up killing [Plaintiff].”

B.    Nathaniel’s Violent Criminal History Demonstrating His Disregard for
      Human Life and Safety

      34.    Prior to Nathaniel’s employment with the Employer Defendants, he

had been criminally charged and pleaded guilty to several crimes of violence and

reckless, willful, and wanton conduct, demonstrating his disregard for the safety

and well-being of others, including sexual assault, robbery, and carrying a firearm

without a license.

      35.    In particular, according to publicly available records, in September

2014, Nathaniel was charged with felony aggravated indecent assault, felony

                                           7
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 8 of 35




robbery, indecent assault, attempted theft by unlawful taking, simple assault,

harassment, and criminal mischief.

      36.    Pursuant to the publicly docketed criminal complaint underlying the

September 2014 charges, Nathaniel violently ripped a purse off of a woman’s

body, causing the purse strap to break, and then sexually assaulted her.

      37.    In August 2015, Nathaniel pleaded guilty to assault and attempted

theft by unlawful taking related to the September 2014 encounter, and was

sentenced to 11 ½ months to 23 months in prison.

      38.    Previously, in March 2012, publicly available records indicate that

Nathaniel pleaded guilty to carrying a firearm without a license.

      39.    The foregoing information concerning Nathaniel’s reckless

propensities was publicly available and accessible to the Employer Defendants at

the time that they hired Nathaniel.

C.    Plaintiff’s Coworker Lodges a Complaint With the Employer
      Defendants’ Director of Operations Regarding Nathaniel’s Threats
      Towards Plaintiff, but the Employer Defendants Ignore the Complaint

      40.    Several of Plaintiff’s coworkers heard Nathaniel’s transphobic slurs

and threats, including Plaintiff’s coworker, Jay Hernandez (“Hernandez”).

      41.    In or around late-April 2022, Hernandez called the Employer

Defendants’ Director of Operations, Steven Lindsay (“Lindsay”), and advised

Lindsay that he had an important matter to discuss.


                                         8
            Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 9 of 35




      42.      Lindsay initially replied that he was in a meeting at the time, but after

Hernandez stressed that the matter was urgent, Lindsay agreed to step out of his

meeting to talk to Hernandez.

      43.      Hernandez then explained that he was concerned because he had

heard Nathaniel threatening to “fuck up” and “kill” Plaintiff due to his gender

identity.

      44.      Hernandez further requested that he no longer be staffed with

Nathaniel in the future.

      45.      Lindsay responded that he would “look into” Hernandez’s concerns,

but stated that he first needed to “get some understanding of this whole trans

thing,” because he had never previously encountered a similar situation.

      46.      Following Hernandez’s complaint to Lindsay, the Employer

Defendants did not take any action whatsoever against Nathaniel.

      47.      In fact, the Employer Defendants continued to schedule Nathaniel to

work on the same shift as Plaintiff and Hernandez.

D.    Nathaniel Brutally Assaults Plaintiff in the Workplace

      48.      On or around May 10, 2022, Plaintiff and Nathaniel were both

scheduled to work at SEPTA’s City Hall Station in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.




                                            9
           Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 10 of 35




      49.     Near the end of Plaintiff’s shift, Nathaniel approached Plaintiff

without provocation and asked, “What’s up with all that shit you’ve been

talking?”, implying that Plaintiff had spoken poorly about Nathaniel.

      50.     Nathaniel than repeatedly screamed at Plaintiff to “come outside” and

“fight.”

      51.     Plaintiff attempted to deescalate the situation and stated that he did

not want to fight Nathaniel.

      52.     Nathaniel then stated, “Watch this,” and abruptly walked away.

      53.     Several minutes later, one of Plaintiff’s supervisors, who had learned

of Nathaniel’s confrontation, sent a text message to Plaintiff advising Plaintiff to

“[l]eave City Hall,” followed by a text message instructing Plaintiff to “[j]ust

separate from Lamere [Nathaniel].”

      54.     Plaintiff called his supervisor on the phone for clarification, and was

instructed to meet his supervisor at SEPTA’s Spring Garden Station.

      55.     Plaintiff therefore boarded the next available train to SEPTA’s Spring

Garden Station.

      56.     Before the train door closed, however, Nathaniel and two accomplices

rushed into the train car and began brutally assaulting Plaintiff.




                                          10
          Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 11 of 35




        57.   Nathaniel and his accomplices repeatedly punched Plaintiff in his

head and face, and attempted to pull Plaintiff’s sweatshirt over his head in order to

prevent him from defending himself.

        58.   As the trio assaulted Plaintiff, Nathaniel repeatedly yelled that

Plaintiff was a “girl” and a “bitch.”

        59.   The assault lasted for several minutes, until the train reached its next

stop.

        60.   As a result of the assault, Plaintiff suffered bruising and swelling to

the left frontal region of his head, several jammed fingers, and bruising and

swelling to his right forearm, and was required to seek immediate medical care.

E.      The Employer Defendants Attempt to Justify Their Complete Failure to
        Take Corrective Action Prior to Nathaniel’s Attack on Plaintiff

        61.   Following Nathaniel’s assault on Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s colleague

Hernandez sent a text message to the Employer Defendants’ Director of

Operations, Lindsay, chastising the Employer Defendants for refusing to heed his

prior warnings about Nathaniel’s threats.

        62.   In his text message, Hernandez stated:

              Good morning Steve [Lindsay]. It was brought to my
              attention that [Plaintiff] was jumped last night by Lamere
              [Nathaniel], this breaks my heart because I tried to
              prevent all of this from happening when I first gave you a
              call a few weeks ago to warn you about the issues
              Lamere [Nathaniel] had with trans people like
              [Plaintiff] . . . . Anything could have happened to us by

                                           11
           Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 12 of 35




              this guy and he remained on the job. It was very clear
              from the beginning that Lamere [Nathaniel] hates trans
              people as I told you on our first phone conversation. I
              always feared the worst when it came to him because no
              one really knew what he would do.

      63.     Lindsay replied and made clear that the Employer Defendants

believed that they did not have any responsibility to act on Hernandez’s complaint,

and even shifted the blame to Hernandez for allegedly alerting Plaintiff to

Nathaniel’s threats against his life:

              Hello J,

              At that time you were the only person he [Nathaniel]
              talked to. If he was fired after you could have not been
              safe. Septa is a public place who is to say who [sic]
              wouldn’t have came up there and confronted [Plaintiff]
              anyway.

              Did you call [Plaintiff] and tell him because Lamere
              [Nathaniel] claims [Plaintiff] called him threatening
              saying that another co-worker told him that Lamere
              [Nathaniel] had a problem. This is what escalated the
              situation.

(emphasis added).

F.    Plaintiff Returns to Work Following Nathaniel’s Assault, and His
      Supervisor Continues to “Out” Him and Instigate Additional Acts of
      Harassment Against Him

      64.     Notwithstanding the Employer Defendants’ indifference towards

transphobia in their workplace, Plaintiff returned to work following Nathaniel’s

assault.


                                         12
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 13 of 35




      65.    Incredibly, soon after Plaintiff’s return to work, his supervisor, Bates,

continued to “out” Plaintiff to more of the Employer Defendants’ employees who

were not aware of his gender identity, including employee Dymere Campbell

(“Campbell”).

      66.    Just like Nathaniel had done, Campbell too began openly voicing

disdain for Plaintiff due to his gender identity.

      67.    On or around June 23, 2022, during Plaintiff’s shift, he was speaking

with his supervisor, Bates, when Campbell called Bates on his cell phone.

      68.    After Bates spoke with Campbell for one to two minutes, Bates loudly

asked, “Are you sure you want me to do that?”, and then stated, “Hold on real

quick,” and placed the call on speaker phone.

      69.    After Bates placed the call on speaker phone, he remarked, “What did

you say bro?”, in an attempt to cause Campbell to repeat whatever had been said

before the call had been placed on speaker.

      70.    In response, Campbell began screaming, “Where’s that tranny boy

at!”, “Where’s that trans man at!”, and “Where the fuck is he!”, while

threatening to harm Plaintiff.

      71.    Campbell then hung up the phone.




                                          13
          Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 14 of 35




        72.    One of Plaintiff’s coworkers who was present during Campbell’s

transphobic outburst emphatically asked Bates why he placed the call on speaker

phone.

        73.    Bates defended both his and Campbell’s conduct, and replied, “He’s

just joking around.”

        74.    Several minutes after the phone call had ended, Plaintiff was directed

to report to SEPTA’s City Hall Station, where Campbell had been working at the

time.

        75.    As soon as Plaintiff arrived at SEPTA’s City Hall Station, Campbell

approached him and shouted, “What’s up tranny boy!”, and challenged Plaintiff to

“fight” him.

        76.    Campbell repeatedly addressed Plaintiff as a “tranny” and a “girl,”

and yelled that he was going to “fuck [Plaintiff] up” and “treat you like the bitch

that you are!”

        77.    Campbell continued to hurl transphobic slurs towards Plaintiff, but

was ultimately subdued, and was fortunately unable to complete his attempted

assault upon Plaintiff.

        78.    Following Campbell’s outburst, Plaintiff confronted his supervisor,

Bates, about Bates continually disclosing Plaintiff’s gender identity and instigating

others to harass him.


                                          14
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 15 of 35




      79.    Plaintiff attempted to explain that Bates’ conduct was putting

Plaintiff’s safety in jeopardy.

G.    The Employer Defendants Terminate Plaintiff for Opposing the
      Ongoing Harassment, but Do Not Terminate His Harassers

      80.    One day later, on June 24, 2022, Bates issued Plaintiff an “Employee

Action Form” terminating his employment with the Company.

      81.    Plaintiff’s “Employee Action Form” attributed his termination to

alleged “misconduct”; more specifically, “On Thursday June 23rd, 2022 while on

shift [Plaintiff] became involved in an altercation with a fellow co-worker. During

the altercation [Plaintiff] [made] several inappropriate comments and threats

towards fellow employees.”

      82.    The assertions set forth in the “Employee Action Form” were false.

      83.    Plaintiff’s “Employee Action Form” provides that it was “approved”

by the Employer Defendants’ Director of Operations, Lindsay.

      84.    The Employer Defendants did not terminate Bates or Campbell for

their discriminatory conduct.

H.    The Employer Defendants’ Agents Lodge Death Threats Against
      Plaintiff Following His Termination

      85.    Following Plaintiff’s termination, Plaintiff received a series of

anonymous and highly threatening text messages which, upon information and

belief, were sent by the Employer Defendants’ agents, representatives, and/or



                                         15
        Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 16 of 35




employees, either at the direction of the Employer Defendants or with the

Employer Defendants’ knowledge and consent.

      86.    For instance, soon after Plaintiff’s termination, he received an

unsolicited text message stating:

             We on our way to ya house bitch I told u last time was
             ya last time playing with me, bitch nobody was playing
             on ya phone but watch this[.]

             Gonna do you just like lamere [Nathaniel] did[.]

      87.    Plaintiff also received a text message displaying images of coffins,

advising Plaintiff to “pick 1”, and stating that he would soon “be in one” because

he was going to “die”, and further referring to him as a “faggot”:




                                         16
          Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 17 of 35




      88.     In addition, Plaintiff received a text message from an individual

holding himself out as Plaintiff’s former coworker and harasser, Dymere

Campbell, which provided as follows:

              Yo this Dymere [Cambell] when you so call sue the
              company keep my name out that shit you rat ass nigga
              . . . . I won’t bother you after dis just keep my name out
              ya mouth . . . .

(emphasis added).

      89.     Upon information and belief, Defendants’ threatening

communications were meant, at least in part, to dissuade Plaintiff from filing a

Charge of Discrimination with the EEOC and/or from commencing the instant

action.

I.    Joint Employer/Single Employer Allegations

      90.     Although Plaintiff’s paychecks appear to have been issued by

Defendant Extrity, Defendant Coleman – operating through his Pennsylvania

fictitious name, “Extrity Services” – exercised substantial control over the terms

and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment.

      91.     Indeed, Extrity Services’ website (www.extrityservices.com) indicates

that Extrity Services exercises near-total control over the Employer Defendants’

operations:

              Extrity Services prides itself on changing the face of
              security. Our security professionals are trained with a
              white glove approach to security. Ensuring not only the

                                          17
        Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 18 of 35




             guests, staff, and management are safe but that they
             receive outstanding customer service as well. We let you
             pick the right professional for your venue. Let us take
             one more thing off your plate by offering you licensed
             and insured security professionals who consistently
             participate in best practice training and keep security
             with high quality service their focus.

(emphasis added).

      92.    Extrity Services’ website makes numerous additional references to

Defendant Coleman d/b/a Extrity Services’ control: “[W]e’re just a team of

hospitality professionals that share a passion for safety and security”; “We protect

the continuity of your business by letting you operate free of outside influence”;

and, “Our staff is comprised of former military personnel, hospitality specialists

and off duty police officers.” (emphasis added).

      93.    Extrity Services’ website also touts Defendant Coleman d/b/a Extrity

Services’ security services contract with SEPTA: “Extrity Services was very proud

to be one of the selected partners for SEPTA’s (Southeastern Pennsylvania

Transportation Authority’s) Outreach Specialists role.” (emphasis added).

      94.    In addition, The Employer Defendants’ Director of Operations,

Lindsay, lists his occupation on his public LinkedIn page as “Director of

Operations at Extrity Services.” Given that Plaintiff and his fellow security guards

were overseen by Lindsay, who in turn holds himself out as an employee of

Defendant Coleman d/b/a Extrity Services, Defendant Coleman d/b/a Extrity


                                         18
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 19 of 35




Services appears to have maintained the ability to promulgate rules, assignments,

and conditions of employment for Plaintiff.

       95.   Similarly, Devon Lindsay, who publicly identifies herself as the

Human Resources Director for “Extrity Services”, distributed an unrelated

unlawful meal break policy to Plaintiff and his coworkers in or around May 2022,

again indicating that Defendant Coleman d/b/a Extrity Services maintained the

ability to promulgate rules, assignments, and conditions of employment for

Plaintiff.

       96.   Further, although Plaintiff received few written policies throughout

his employment, at least one written policy issued to Plaintiff purports to be

authored by “Extrity Services,” and refers to Plaintiff as an “Extrity Services Team

Member.”

       97.   Accordingly, Defendant Coleman d/b/a Extrity Services is liable to

Plaintiff pursuant to a “joint employer,” “single employer,” “apparent employer,”

and/or agency theory of liability.

                                      COUNT I

    VIOLATION OF TITLE VII OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964:
                HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT
                 (Plaintiff v. Employer Defendants)

       98.   Plaintiff hereby incorporates the preceding paragraphs by reference as

though fully set forth at length herein.



                                           19
        Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 20 of 35




      99.    At all times relevant and material herein, Plaintiff was an “employee”

as defined by 42 U.S.C. § 2000e(f).

      100. At all times relevant and material herein, Defendant Extrity was

Plaintiff’s “employer” within the meaning of 42 U.S.C. § 2000e(b), and employed

15 or more persons.

      101. At all times relevant and material herein, Defendant Coleman retained

sufficient control over the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment with

Defendant Extrity such that he is liable to Plaintiff pursuant to a joint employer

and/or agency theory of liability.

      102. In addition, or in the alternative, Defendant Coleman served as

Plaintiff’s apparent or ostensible employer.

      103. In the alternative, at all times relevant and material herein, Defendant

Coleman was Plaintiff’s “employer” within the meaning of 42 U.S.C. § 2000e(b),

and employed 15 or more persons.

      104. In the alternative, at all times relevant and material herein, Defendant

Extrity retained sufficient control over the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s

employment with Defendant Coleman such that it is liable to Plaintiff pursuant to a

joint employer and/or agency theory of liability.

      105. In the alternative, Defendant Extrity served as Plaintiff’s apparent or

ostensible employer.


                                          20
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 21 of 35




      106. In the alternative, at all times relevant and material herein, the

operations of Defendants Extrity and Coleman were so entangled that nominal

employees of one company were treated interchangeably with those of another,

such that Defendants Extrity and Coleman are liable to Plaintiff pursuant to a

“single employer” theory of liability.

      107. Title VII provides that it is “an unlawful employment practice for an

employer . . . to discriminate against any individual with respect to his

compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such

individual’s . . . sex . . . .” 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a)(1).

      108. Throughout the course of Plaintiff’s employment, he was subjected to

unwelcomed harassment by his supervisor, Bates, as well as his coworkers,

Nathaniel and Campbell, due to his gender identity.

      109. The harassment endured by Plaintiff was severe and pervasive.

      110. The harassment endured by Plaintiff detrimentally affected him, and

would have detrimentally affected a similarly situated reasonable person.

      111. Plaintiff was not provided with any anti-harassment or complaint-

reporting policies of any nature during his employment with the Employer

Defendants.

      112. Plaintiff’s harassment occurred openly and in the presence of his

coworkers and supervisors, and was exacerbated by Plaintiff’s supervisor, Bates.


                                           21
           Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 22 of 35




      113. Plaintiff’s coworker, Hernandez, complained to the Employer

Defendants’ Director of Operations, Lindsay, that Nathaniel had threatened to

“fuck up” and “kill” Plaintiff due to his gender identity, but Lindsay ignored the

complaint.

      114.      The Employer Defendants either were aware, or should have been

aware, of the harassment inflicted on Plaintiff, but failed to take appropriate

corrective action to remedy the harassment, rendering them liable for Plaintiff’s

harassment.

      115. Moreover, the Employer Defendants failed to provide a reasonable

avenue for Plaintiff to complain of his harassment, again rendering them liable for

Plaintiff’s harassment.

      116. In addition, Bates’ harassment of Plaintiff culminated in Plaintiff’s

termination.

      117. Because Bates’ harassment of Plaintiff culminated in a tangible

adverse employment action, the Employer Defendants are strictly liable for Bates’

conduct.

      118. Through their conduct, the Employer Defendants violated Title VII.

      119. The Employer Defendants acted with reckless indifference to

Plaintiff’s rights under federal law, warranting an award of punitive damages.




                                          22
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 23 of 35




      120. As a result of the Employer Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff has

suffered, and continues to suffer, emotional distress, humiliation, embarrassment,

anguish, personal hardship, career and social disruption, psychological and

emotional harm, and lost wages.

                                      COUNT II

    VIOLATION OF TITLE VII OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964:
                        DISCRIMINATION
                 (Plaintiff v. Employer Defendants)

      121. Plaintiff hereby incorporates the preceding paragraphs by reference as

though fully set forth at length herein.

      122. Title VII provides that it is “an unlawful employment practice for an

employer . . . to discriminate against any individual with respect to his

compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such

individual’s . . . sex . . .” 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a)(1).

      123. At all times relevant and material herein, Plaintiff was qualified for

the position of security guard.

      124. Prior to Plaintiff’s termination, his supervisor, Bates, repeatedly

“outed” him to numerous coworkers without his consent, and encouraged

Plaintiff’s coworkers to harass him due to his gender identity.

      125. Prior to Plaintiff’s termination, Defendant’s Director of Operations,

Lindsay, was advised that Plaintiff’s coworker, Nathaniel, had threatened to “fuck


                                           23
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 24 of 35




up” and “kill” Plaintiff due to his gender identity, but took no action whatsoever

against Nathaniel.

      126. Plaintiff was terminated based on an “Employee Action Form” issued

by Bates and approved by Lindsay, which alleged that Plaintiff had made

inappropriate comments and threats towards his coworker, Campbell.

      127. The allegations set forth in the write-up were false.

      128. Moreover, neither Bates nor Campbell were terminated for directing

transphobic comments and threats of violence towards Plaintiff.

      129. Through their conduct, the Employer Defendants violated Title VII.

      130. The Employer Defendants acted with reckless indifference to

Plaintiff’s rights under federal law, warranting an award of punitive damages.

      131. As a result of the Employer Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff has

suffered, and continues to suffer, emotional distress, humiliation, embarrassment,

anguish, personal hardship, career and social disruption, psychological and

emotional harm, and lost wages.

                                     COUNT III

   VIOLATION OF TITLE VII OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964:
                          RETALIATION
                (Plaintiff v. Employer Defendants)

      132. Plaintiff hereby incorporates the preceding paragraphs by reference as

though fully set forth at length herein.



                                           24
        Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 25 of 35




      133. Title VII provides that it is an “unlawful employment practice for an

employer to discriminate against any of his employees . . . because he has opposed

any practice made an unlawful employment practice by this subchapter . . . .” 42

U.S.C. § 2000e-3(a).

      134. During Plaintiff’s tenure with the Employer Defendants, Plaintiff’s

supervisor, Bates, repeatedly “outed” Plaintiff’s gender identity to Plaintiff’s

coworkers without his consent.

      135. Bates’ conduct led to Plaintiff being brutally assaulted in the

workplace in May 2022.

      136. On or around June 23, 2022, after Bates had “outed” Plaintiff to

another one of his coworkers, Campbell, Campbell assailed Plaintiff with

additional transphobic slurs and threats of violence due to his gender identity.

      137. On that same date, Plaintiff complained to Bates regarding Bates

continually “outing” him, and expressed concern that Bates’ conduct was

jeopardizing his safety.

      138. One day later, the Employer Defendants issued Plaintiff an

“Employee Action Form” terminating his employment, which alleged that Plaintiff

had made inappropriate comments and threats during the encounter with Campbell.

      139. The allegations set forth in the “Employee Action Form” were false,

and in any event, do not preclude a retaliation claim, because the Employer


                                          25
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 26 of 35




Defendants forced Plaintiff into a confrontational situation by refusing to remedy –

and by instead actually provoking – persistent unlawful discrimination against

Plaintiff in the workplace.

      140. Neither Bates nor Campbell were terminated for directing transphobic

comments and threats of violence towards Plaintiff.

      141. Following Plaintiff’s termination, the Employer Defendants directed

and/or permitted their agents to send a series of severely threatening text message

communications to Plaintiff, which were meant in part to dissuade Plaintiff from

filing a Charge of Discrimination with the EEOC and/or from commencing the

instant action.

      142. Through their conduct, the Employer Defendants violated Title VII.

      143. The Employer Defendants acted with reckless indifference to

Plaintiff’s rights under federal law, warranting an award of punitive damages.

      144. As a result of the Employer Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff has

suffered, and continues to suffer, emotional distress, humiliation, embarrassment,

anguish, personal hardship, career and social disruption, psychological and

emotional harm, and lost wages.




                                         26
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 27 of 35




                                     COUNT IV

                     NEGLIGENT HIRING AND RETENTION
                        (Plaintiff v. Employer Defendants)

      145. Plaintiff hereby incorporates the preceding paragraphs by reference as

though fully set forth at length herein.

      146. The Employer Defendants had a duty to ensure that their employees

did not possess a propensity for episodes of violent and/or reckless behavior.

      147. The Employer Defendants had a duty to exercise reasonable care to

protect their employees from acts of violence committed by coworkers who the

Employer Defendants knew or should have known were likely to engage in violent

and/or reckless acts.

      148. The Employer Defendants breached the foregoing duties by, among

other things:

                a)   Failing to properly screen their employees;

                b)   Failing to ensure that their employees did not possess a

propensity for episodes of violent and/or reckless behavior;

                c)   Enabling employees who they knew possessed a propensity for

violent and/or or reckless behavior to harm other employees, including Plaintiff;

and




                                           27
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 28 of 35




             d)     Failing to protect Plaintiff from the violent and reckless acts of

their employees, which the Employer Defendants knew or should have known

were likely to occur at their worksites.

      149. The Employer Defendants knew or should have known that failing to

properly screen their employees could result in injuries to Plaintiff.

      150. At all times material hereto, the Employer Defendants knew, or in the

exercise of reasonable care should have known, that Nathaniel had a propensity for

violence and reckless behavior.

      151. Indeed, prior to Nathaniel’s employment with the Employer

Defendants, Nathaniel had been criminally charged and pleaded guilty to several

crimes of violence and reckless, willful, and wanton conduct, demonstrating his

disregard for the safety and well-being of others, including sexual assault, robbery,

and carrying a firearm without a license.

      152. Had the Employer Defendants performed a basic background check

before hiring Nathaniel, they would have been aware of his interminable criminal

behavior.

      153. In the alternative, the Employer Defendants knew of Nathaniel’s

propensity for violence and reckless behavior prior to his employment, but

disregarded the risks of hiring such an individual.




                                            28
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 29 of 35




      154. In either case, during Plaintiff’s employment with the Employer

Defendants, the Employer Defendants became unequivocally aware of Nathaniel’s

propensity for violence, when Plaintiff’s coworker, Hernandez, alerted the

Employer Defendants’ Director of Operations that Nathaniel was threatening to

“fuck up” and “kill” Plaintiff.

      155. Nevertheless, the Employer Defendants hired Nathaniel, and retained

him even after they possessed actual knowledge of his propensity for violence.

      156. By hiring and retaining Nathaniel, the Employer Defendants created a

situation where Nathaniel’s violent and reckless tendencies could harm other

employees, including Plaintiff.

      157. By hiring and retaining Nathaniel, the Employer Defendants acted in

conscious disregard of, or with reckless indifference to, the known and obvious

risk that Nathaniel posed to his co-workers, including Plaintiff, and the public at

large, warranting an award of punitive damages.

      158. As a direct result of the negligence, carelessness, and recklessness of

the Employer Defendants, Plaintiff has been harmed.

      159. All of Plaintiff’s losses and damages were, are, and will be due solely

to and by reason of the carelessness, negligence, and recklessness of the Employer

Defendants, without any negligence or want of due care on Plaintiff’s part

contributing thereto.


                                         29
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 30 of 35




                                      COUNT V

                           NEGLIGENT SUPERVISION
                         (Plaintiff v. Employer Defendants)

      160. Plaintiff hereby incorporates the preceding paragraphs by reference as

though fully set forth at length herein.

      161. The Employer Defendants had a duty to exercise reasonable care to

prevent their employees from assaulting other employees, including Plaintiff.

      162. The Employer Defendants had a duty to ensure that their worksites

were safe and adequately staffed and supervised.

      163. The Employer Defendants breached the foregoing duties by, among

other things:

                a)   Failing to maintain proper supervision of their worksites and

their employees;

                b)   Enabling employees who they knew possessed a propensity for

violent and/or reckless behavior to harm other employees, including Plaintiff; and

                c)   Failing to protect Plaintiff from the violent and reckless acts of

their employees, which the Employer Defendants knew or should have known

were likely to occur at their worksites.

      164. The Employer Defendants knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care

should have known, that Nathaniel had a propensity for violence.




                                           30
        Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 31 of 35




      165. Indeed, prior to Nathaniel’s employment with the Employer

Defendants, Nathaniel had been criminally charged and pleaded guilty to several

crimes of violence and reckless, willful, and wanton conduct, demonstrating his

disregard for the safety and well-being of others, including sexual assault, robbery,

and carrying a firearm without a license.

      166. A simple background search would have revealed (or did reveal) all of

the above.

      167. Further, Nathaniel’s propensity for violence became explicitly known

to the Employer Defendants during Plaintiff’s employment, when Plaintiff’s

coworker, Hernandez, alerted the Employer Defendants’ Director of Operations

that Nathaniel was threatening to “fuck up” and “kill” Plaintiff.

      168. Defendant nonetheless failed to take any corrective action whatsoever

against Nathaniel, continued to schedule Nathaniel to work on the same shifts as

Plaintiff, and failed to adequately supervise Nathaniel.

      169. By failing to adequately supervise Nathaniel, the Employer

Defendants created a situation where Nathaniel’s propensities toward violence

could harm other employees, including Plaintiff.

      170. Given Nathaniel’s violent criminal history, coupled with Hernandez’s

complaints to the Employer Defendants’ Director of Operations regarding




                                            31
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 32 of 35




Nathaniel’s threats towards Plaintiff, the harm to Plaintiff was reasonably

foreseeable to the Employer Defendants.

      171. By failing to adequately supervise Nathaniel – even after being

specifically alerted that Nathaniel had threatened to “fuck up” and “kill” Plaintiff –

the Employer Defendants acted in conscious disregard of, or with deliberate

indifference to, the known and obvious risk that Nathaniel posed to his co-workers,

including Plaintiff, and the public at large, warranting an award of punitive

damages.

      172. As a direct result of the negligence, carelessness, and recklessness of

the Employer Defendants, Plaintiff has been harmed.

      173. All of Plaintiff’s losses and damages were, are, and will be due solely

to and by reason of the carelessness, negligence, and recklessness of the Employer

Defendants, without any negligence or want of due care on Plaintiff’s part

contributing thereto.

                                     COUNT VI

         INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS
       (Plaintiff v. Employer Defendants and John Doe Defendants 1-10)

      174. Plaintiff hereby incorporates the preceding paragraphs by reference as

though fully set forth at length herein.

      175. After Plaintiff had been physically assaulted in the workplace and

terminated from his employment, the Employer Defendants directed the John Doe

                                           32
         Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 33 of 35




Defendants 1-10 to send a series of highly alarming text message communications

to Plaintiff, in which they threatened to physically harm, and even kill, Plaintiff.

      176. Defendants either intended to cause Plaintiff severe emotional

distress, or were reckless in not knowing that their conduct would cause Plaintiff

severe emotional distress.

      177. Defendants acted in conscious disregard of, or with deliberate

indifference to, the resulting risk of harm to Plaintiff, warranting an award of

punitive damages.

      178. As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff suffered, and continues to

suffer, severe emotional distress.

                                     COUNT VII

                             CIVIL CONSPIRACY
       (Plaintiff v. Employer Defendants and John Doe Defendants 1-10)

      179. Plaintiff hereby incorporates the preceding paragraphs by reference as

though fully set forth at length herein.

      180. The Employer Defendants and John Doe Defendants 1-10 conspired

to intentionally inflict emotional distress upon Plaintiff.

      181. In furtherance of said conspiracy, John Doe Defendants 1-10 sent a

series of highly alarming text message communications to Plaintiff, in which they

threatened to physically harm, and even kill, Plaintiff.

      182. Defendants intended to injure Plaintiff through their conduct.

                                           33
           Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 34 of 35




      183. Defendants acted in conscious disregard of, or with deliberate

indifference to, the resulting risk of harm to Plaintiff, warranting an award of

punitive damages.

      184. As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff suffered, and continues to

suffer, severe emotional distress.

                                  Prayer for Relief

      WHEREFORE, Plaintiff prays that a judgment be entered in his favor and

against Defendants in the following respects:

      a)      An order awarding back pay, front pay, compensatory damages, and

punitive damages on Counts I, II, and III;

      b)      An order awarding compensatory damages and punitive damages and

Counts IV, V, VI, and VII;

      c)      An order awarding attorneys’ fees and expenses on Counts I, II, and

III pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-5(k);

      d)      An order awarding pre-judgment and post-judgment interest; and

      e)      All other relief as the Court deems just and equitable.

                                     Jury Demand

      Plaintiff demands a jury trial on all issues so triable.




                                          34
       Case 2:22-cv-03918-JS Document 1 Filed 10/03/22 Page 35 of 35




                                  Respectfully submitted,

Date: 10/3/2022             BY: /s/ Peter C. Wood, Jr.
                                Peter C. Wood, Jr., Esq. (I.D. No. 310145)
                                MOBILIO WOOD
                                900 Rutter Ave., Box 24
                                Forty Fort, PA 18704
                                Phone: (570) 234-0442
                                Fax: (570) 266-5402
                                peter@mobiliowood.com

                                  Counsel for Plaintiff Dijon Summers




                                    35
