Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/65374529/1/miller-v-wheel-collision-center/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in MILLER v. WHEEL COLLISION CENTER (E.D. Pa., 5:22-cv-03811) – CourtListener.com

            Case 5:22-cv-03811-JMG Document 1 Filed 09/26/22 Page 1 of 8




                       IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                    FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


RICK MILLER,                                   :
                                               :
       Plaintiff,                              :       CIV. ACTION NO.
                                               :
               v.                              :
                                               :
WHEEL COLLISION CENTER                                 :      COMPLAINT
                                               :
       Defendant.                              :       JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
                                               :


                                          COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Rick Miller, by and through his undersigned counsel, The Lacy Employment

Law Firm LLC, hereby files this Complaint against Defendant and states as follows:

                    PROCEDURAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

       1.      All the allegations contained in the foregoing paragraphs of this Complaint are

incorporated by reference as if set forth herein at length.

       2.      Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b)(2) because a

substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred within this District.

       3.      On our about June 9th, 2021, Plaintiff dual-filed a charge with the Pittsburgh

office of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the Pennsylvania

Human Relations Commission alleging retaliation and discrimination based on age and

disability. See EEOC Charge of Discrimination, attached as Exhibit 1.

       4.      The EEOC issued a Right to Sue letter (“Right to Sue”) and Plaintiff timely filed

the above-captioned action on or before 90 days from receipt of the Right to Sue that the EEOC

issued. See Exhibit 2.
            Case 5:22-cv-03811-JMG Document 1 Filed 09/26/22 Page 2 of 8




       5.      Plaintiff has fully complied with all administrative prerequisites for the

commencement of this action.

                                             PARTIES

       6.      Plaintiff Rick Miller, a male living with mental and physical disabilities, resides at

2631 Seip Avenue, Easton, PA 18045.

       7.      Defendant Wheel Collision Center is an auto repair shop located at 231

Moorestown Drive, Bath, PA 18014.

                                  FACTUAL BACKGROUND

       8.      Mr. Miller began his employment with Wheel Collision Center on or about May

2, 2013, in the position of a Painter reporting to John Sigfried.

       9.      Mr. Miller’s job duties included painting wheels, cleaning the paint booth daily

and weekly, mixing paints, ordering materials, preparing wheels for paint, using wet paint and

primer, clear coating wheels, and masking wheels.

       10.     Mr. Miller suffers from anxiety and other physical disabilities including being

blind in his right eye and diabetes.

       11.     The position was based out of Wheel Collision Center’s principal location in

Bath, Pennsylvania. During his employment with Wheel Collision Center, Mr. Miller worked

diligently and at an exemplary level with no complaints from management, except for one of his

supervisors, Daryl Robbins. His other supervisor, George Hershman, told Mr. Miller that he was

pleasant to work with and did his job efficiently.

       12.     Mr. Robbins was aware of Mr. Miller’s anxiety and other physical disabilities.

After a few years of working at WCC, Mr. Robbins began to treat Mr. Miller in a hostile and
          Case 5:22-cv-03811-JMG Document 1 Filed 09/26/22 Page 3 of 8




discriminatory manner by holding him to a higher standard than other similarly-situated

employees.

       13.     Mr. Robbins would often force Mr. Miller to do demeaning and menial work that

was not tied to his job discretion, such as putting Mr. Miller on mop duty.

       14.     Mr. Robbins would berate and chastise Mr. Miller about the work that he did and

would yell at him for doing things that other employees did without punishment, such as using

his cell phone at work.

       15.     In or around October 2020, Mr. Miller contracted Covid-19 despite his best efforts

to wear masks at work. As a result, he suffered severe adverse reactions, which caused him to

take a continued absence from work. Covid-19 in combination with Mr. Miller’s existing

disabilities lead to a new physical disability – pulmonary complications.

       16.     Mr. Robbins created a hostile work environment by repeatedly making

inappropriate comments to Kim Sigfried, another employee, about Mr. Miller’s disabilities. On

one such occasion, Mr. Robbins and Ms. Siegfried described Mr. Miller as a liar and said that he

was not being truthful about his Covid-19 diagnosis.

       17.     When Mr. Miller heard about these comments, he confronted Mr. Robbins and

told him to stop attacking him. Mr. Robbins admitted to verbally berating Mr. Miller, but did

nothing to stop this behavior.

       18.     For the next few months following his Covid-19 diagnosis, Mr. Miller continued

with physical and mental therapy, and applied for worker’s compensation.

       19.     On March 5, 2021, Mr. Miller was cleared to return to work by his doctor. He

formally filed a harassment complaint against Mr. Robbins, and also requested a reasonable

accommodation from WCC for his disability. The accommodation request asked for Mr. Miller
           Case 5:22-cv-03811-JMG Document 1 Filed 09/26/22 Page 4 of 8




to exclusively be supervised by his other supervisor, Mr. Hershman, and that Mr. Miller not have

any contact with Mr. Robbins.

        20.      WCC failed to respond to Mr. Miller’s complaint or request for reasonable

accommodation.

        21.      On May 6, 2021, Nicole Reily informed Mr. Miller that WCC received his

separation paperwork mailed on April 29, 2021, noting that Mr. Miller quit on March 28, 2021.

However, Mr. Miller never signed a separation request, and his signature was not on the

separation request.

        22.      Ms. Reily claimed that she never received Mr. Miller’s request for reasonable

accommodation, though later, she stated that WCC had received his request.

        23.      Despite Mr. Miller’s several complaints about discrimination and hostile work

environment, WCC failed to conduct an investigation or take any action other than to terminate

Mr. Miller.

        24.      Mr. Miller was replaced by a substantially younger worker without disabilities.



                                           COUNT I
         Disability Discrimination in Violation of the ADA, 42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq.
                          Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation

        25.      Plaintiff incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth herein

in their entirety.

        26.      Plaintiff suffered from qualifying health conditions under the ADA that affected

his ability at certain times to perform daily life activities.

        27.      Defendant was at all times an employer with more than 15 employees and subject

to the ADA.
            Case 5:22-cv-03811-JMG Document 1 Filed 09/26/22 Page 5 of 8




        28.      Plaintiff’s disability is recognized as a disability under the ADA. Mr. Miller

suffers from anxiety and other physical disabilities including being blind in his right eye and

diabetes.

        29.      Plaintiff informed Defendant’s managers/supervisors of his serious medical

conditions. And he also informed them of the need for medical treatment and/or other

accommodations.

        30.      Despite Plaintiff’s health conditions and limitations, he was still able to perform

the duties of his job with or without a reasonable accommodation.

        31.      Plaintiff requested a reasonable accommodation. Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s

employment because of, and in retaliation for, requesting a reasonable accommodation under the

ADA.

        32.      Defendant’s actions in subjecting Plaintiff to discrimination based on his actual

and/or perceived disabilities and/or record of impairment, and retaliating against him for

requesting a reasonable accommodation for his disabilities is in violation of the ADA.

        33.      As a direct result of unlawful, discriminatory, and retaliatory employment

practices in violation of the ADA, of which Defendant engaged, Plaintiff sustained permanent

and irreparable harm, resulting in termination from employment, which caused loss of earnings,

plus the value of certain benefits, loss of future earning power, back pay, front pay, and interests.


                                         COUNT II
                Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. § 621, et seq.
                         Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation

        34.      Plaintiff incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth herein

in their entirety.
           Case 5:22-cv-03811-JMG Document 1 Filed 09/26/22 Page 6 of 8




        35.      Based on the foregoing, Defendant engaged in unlawful employment practices in

violation of the ADEA

        36.      Plaintiff is and was at the time of his termination, over forty years of age, and an

individual within the class protected by the ADEA.

        37.      In discriminating against and harassing Plaintiff because of his age, Defendant

violated the ADEA.

        38.      Defendant’s violations were intentional and willful.

        39.      Liquidated damages are warranted given Defendant’s willful violation of the

ADEA.

        40.      As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s unlawful employment practices,

Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and monetary damages as

a result of Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until the Court grants the

relief requested.

                                            COUNT III
                       Violation of the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act,
                                   42 P.S. §§ 951-963 (“PHRA”)
                                  Discrimination and Retaliation

        41.      Plaintiff incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth herein

in their entirety.

        42.      By committing the foregoing acts of discrimination and retaliation against

Plaintiff, Defendant violated Title VII.

        43.      Defendant acted intentionally and willingly, with malice and/or reckless

indifference to Plaintiff’s rights, warranting the imposition of punitive damages.

        44.      As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s violations of Title VII, Plaintiff

has suffered damages and losses and has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.
           Case 5:22-cv-03811-JMG Document 1 Filed 09/26/22 Page 7 of 8




        45.      Plaintiff believes and therefore avers that he was discriminated against and

subjected to a hostile work environment on the basis of his age, his disability, stereotypes of his

age and disability, and/or his complaints of discrimination.

        46.      Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and

monetary damages as a result of Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until

the Court grants the relief requested.


                                      PRAYER FOR RELIEF

        WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks damages and legal and equitable relief in connection with

Defendant’s improper conduct, and specifically prays that the Court grant the following relief to

Plaintiff by:

              a) Declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be in violation of the

                 ADA, ADEA, Title VII, PHRA, and public policy;

              b) Enjoining and permanently retraining the violations alleged herein;

              c) Entering judgment against Defendant and in favor of the Plaintiff in an amount to

                 be determined;

              d) Awarding compensatory damages to make Plaintiff whole for all lost earnings,

                 earning capacity and benefits, past and future, which Plaintiff has suffered or may

                 suffer as a result of Defendant’s improper conduct;

              e) Awarding compensatory damages to Plaintiff for past and future pain and

                 suffering, emotional upset, mental anguish, humiliation, and loss of life’s

                 pleasure, which Plaintiff has suffered or may suffer as a result of Defendant’s

                 improper conduct;

              f) Awarding punitive damages to Plaintiff;
         Case 5:22-cv-03811-JMG Document 1 Filed 09/26/22 Page 8 of 8




          g) Awarding Plaintiff such other damages as are appropriate under the ADA, ADEA,

              Title VII, PHRA, and public policy;

          h) Awarding Plaintiff the costs of suit, expert fees and other disbursements, and

              reasonable attorney’s fees; and,

          i) Granting such other and further relief as this Court may deem just, proper, or

              equitable, including other equitable and injunctive relief providing restitution for

              past violations and preventing future violations.




Respectfully submitted,


                                                            /s/ Andrew Lacy, Jr.
Dated: September 26, 2022                                   Andrew Lacy, Jr. Esq.
                                                            THE LACY EMPLOYMENT
                                                            LAW FIRM LLC
                                                            2514 W Seybert Street
                                                            Philadelphia, PA
                                                            (t) 412-301-3908
                                                            andrew.lacy@employment-labor-law
                                                            .com

                                                            Counsel for Plaintiffs
