Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/65352686/1/pan-v-temple-university-hospital-inc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in PAN v. TEMPLE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL, INC. (E.D. Pa., 2:22-cv-03695) – CourtListener.com

           Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 1 of 22




                       IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                    FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


 JUDY PAN,
                                                     CIVIL ACTION NO. __________
                         Plaintiff,
                                                     JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
    v.

 TEMPLE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL,
 INC.,

                        Defendant.



                              COMPLAINT AND JURY DEMAND
         Plaintiff Judy Pan, by and through her attorneys, Bell & Bell LLP, hereby files the

following Complaint and Jury Demand (“Complaint”):

                                  PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

      1.         This is an action for an award of damages, attorneys’ fees and other relief on

behalf of Plaintiff Judy Pan (“Dr. Pan”), a former Medical Resident and employee of Defendant

Temple University Hospital, Inc. (“Temple” or the “Hospital”). Dr. Pan has been harmed by

Defendant’s discrimination and harassment based on her sex and retaliation for Dr. Pan’s

complaints about discrimination and harassment. Temple also breached its agreements with Dr.

Pan by, among other things, improperly reporting to the California Medical Board and a federal

verification agency that Dr. Pan was on academic remediation. As a result of Temple’s actions

and inactions, Dr. Pan has also suffered and continues to suffer the loss of lucrative job

opportunities.

      2.         This action is filed pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as

amended by the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. § 2000(e) et seq. (“Title VII”), the
           Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 2 of 22




Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance (“PFPO”), the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S.

§ 951, et seq. (“PHRA”), and the common law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

                              JURISDICTIONAL STATEMENT

      3.       This Court has original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under the

Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331 and 1391.

      4.       The jurisdiction of this Court is also invoked pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1343(4),

which grants the District Court original jurisdiction in any civil action authorized by law to be

commenced by any person to recover damages to secure equitable or other relief under any act of

Congress providing for the protection of civil rights.

      5.       This Court has supplemental jurisdiction over any Pennsylvania state law claims

pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1367.

      6.       All conditions precedent to the institution of this suit have been fulfilled. On

December 6, 2019, Plaintiff timely filed a Complaint with the City of Philadelphia Commission

on Human Relations (“PCHR”), which was dual filed as a Charge of Discrimination with the

United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”). This action has been filed

within ninety (90) days of Plaintiff’s receipt of a Notice of Right to Sue from the EEOC. With

respect to the PFPO and PHRA claims herein, it has been more than one year since Dr. Pan filed

her Complaint with the PCHR. She has received a notice of rights and closure notice from the

PCHR and has filed this action within two years of receiving her notice of rights.

                                             VENUE

      7.       This action properly lies in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, pursuant to 28

U.S.C. § 1391(b).




                                                 2
            Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 3 of 22




      8.        This action properly lies in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania because the

claims and significant activities associated with those claims arose in this judicial district, and

Plaintiff was employed by Defendant in this judicial district.

                                             PARTIES

      9.        Plaintiff Judy Pan is an adult female, with a current residence at 824 N

Washington St., Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

      10.       Defendant Temple University Hospital, Inc. located at 3401 N. Broad Street,

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is an academic medical center and teaching hospital offering

inpatient and outpatient medical services.

      11.       At all relevant times, Defendant Temple is and has been an employer employing

more than five hundred (500) employees.

      12.       Defendant Temple does significant business within the Commonwealth of

Pennsylvania.

      13.       At all relevant times, employees of Temple acted as agents and servants for

Temple.

      14.       At all relevant times, employees of Temple were acting within the scope of their

authority and in the course of employment under the direct control of Temple.

      15.       At all times material hereto, Temple acted by and through its authorized agents,

servants, workmen, and/or employees acting within the course and scope of their employment

with Temple and in furtherance of Temple’s business.

      16.       At all times relevant hereto, Defendant is and has been an “employer” and/or

“person” within the meaning of the laws at issue in this matter, and is accordingly subject to the

provisions of said laws.



                                                  3
              Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 4 of 22




        17.       At all relevant times hereto, Plaintiff Judy Pan was an “employee” within the

meaning of the laws at issue in this matter, and is accordingly entitled to the protections of said

laws.

        18.       This Honorable Court has jurisdiction over Defendant.

                                               FACTS
        19.       By letter dated May 19, 2016, Temple University Hospital offered Dr. Pan a

position in its graduate residency fellowship Plastic Surgery Program (the “Program”).

        20.       Dr. Pan signed her acceptance of the offer (the “Employment Agreement”).

        21.       The length of the Program was three (3) years at a salary of $69,742.40 per year

and was to begin on August 1, 2016.

        22.       On August 1, 2016, per the terms of her Employment Agreement, Dr. Pan began

her employment with Temple University Hospital as a Medical Resident Fellow in Plastic

Surgery.

        23.       While serving Temple as a Resident Fellow, Dr. Pan performed her duties in an

ethical, dedicated and excellent manner.

        24.       Notwithstanding Dr. Pan’s dedication and consistent performance, Temple

discriminated against and harassed Dr. Pan on the basis of her sex and retaliated against Dr. Pan

for complaining about the discriminatory and harassing conduct, resulting in, among other

things, a significant delay in Dr. Pan obtaining her medical license from the California Medical

Board. As a result of Temple’s actions in causing a delay in Dr. Pan’s California medical

license, Dr. Pan was terminated from a fellowship program in California, her career was

irreparably damaged, and she lost out on lucrative job opportunities that she otherwise would

have been qualified for.



                                                   4
            Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 5 of 22




      25.       After beginning of her Medical Residency Fellowship in August 2016, Dr. Pan

worked tirelessly towards the attainment of her medical license, which was to be awarded

subsequent to her completion of her residency program in or about August 2019.

      26.       During her residency, however, Temple discriminatorily treated Dr. Pan

differently than her male peers, such that Dr. Pan received unjustified discipline and/or other

unfavorable treatment, while her male peers did not.

      27.       Per the requirements of the Temple program policy, if a resident fails to achieve

the 20th percentile on the American Society of Plastic Surgery (“ASPS”) in-service examination,

the resident is to be placed on academic probation.

      28.       Dr. Pan failed to achieve the 20th percentile on the ASPS in-service examination,

and in June 2018, Temple placed Dr. Pan on academic probation. There is, however, no national

standard cut-off percentile and Dr. Pan learned that no other plastic surgery program places

residents on reportable academic probation based solely on the examination scores.

      29.       The American Society of Plastic Surgery (the governing committee that

administers the annual in-service exam) indicated that the in-service exams are “not intended to

be used as the sole data point in evaluating a resident’s content knowledge. ASPS and the In-

Service Exam committee recommends that performance on the In-Service Exam be evaluated in

the context of other assessment measures as well as trends.”

      30.       Thus, Temple’s policy of placing residents, like Dr. Pan, on academic probation

based strictly on in-service exam scores goes against the guidance of the ASPS and In-Service

Exam Committee.




                                                 5
            Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 6 of 22




      31.       In fact, the Chief of the program at the time, Dr. James Fox, indicated to Dr. Pan

that the probation was only meant to be an internal program assessment and not a reportable

event.

      32.       In advising Dr. Pan that she was being placed on academic probation, Temple

also stated that Dr. Pan was also being put on clinical remediation, claiming she was “not

meeting” her clinical competencies in certain areas, as she had scored a Level “2” rather than a

Level “3” in certain areas.

      33.       This was entirely shocking to Dr. Pan, as she had been led to believe that the

academic probation was to be solely related to the in-service examination scores.

      34.       Significantly, immediately prior to being placed on academic probation, Dr. Pan

had been informed that she was doing well clinically and had not been given any indication that

she had not been meeting clinical standards.

      35.       In addition, the scoring of certain Level “2’s” pertained solely to one evaluation

of a total of nineteen (19) evaluations made during the year, whereas the remaining 18 out of 19

evaluations from that year had no issues whatsoever with Dr. Pan’s clinical competency.

      36.       Upon information and belief, the alleged “clinical competency” issues related to

one specific patient incident that occurred in or about October 2017.

      37.       With regard to this particular patient, Dr. Pan, under direct supervision of the

attending supervising surgeon Dr. Janelle Wagner, dissected too deeply into the pleural space

during a surgical procedure, which is a known and common risk involved in the procedure. As a

result of this risk, some surgeons do not perform this particular aspect of the procedure.

      38.       Dr. Pan acted appropriately and responsibly in immediately contacting her

attending supervising physician, Dr. Wagner, repairing the defect, and following Dr. Wagner’s



                                                  6
            Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 7 of 22




specific instructions to order an X-ray once the patient was in recovery. Dr. Wagner was also

present and operating on the same patient. Dr. Wagner, however, left immediately after the case,

without waiting for the chest X-ray she had ordered to be completed.

      39.       Temple improperly alleged that Dr. Pan failed to follow the proper sign-out

procedure regarding the incident, when in fact, Dr. Pan had followed proper sign-out procedure

and it was the male transitioning resident who had not.

      40.       Throughout the time period of Dr. Pan’s residency, from August 2016 through

August 2019, the clinical practice for transition of care was a written sign-out emailed between

residents.

      41.       None of the residents had received or had been made aware of any formal sign-

out policy.

      42.       In fact, Dr. Pan had followed the accepted sign-out procedures that she knew to be

in effect at the time, by emailing the transitioning resident, Jose Munoz, regarding the patient, as

well as having completed both a verbal and face-to-face sign-out with the overnight resident

staying at the hospital that night.

      43.       The other Plastic Surgery resident assigned to care for the patient, Jose Munoz, a

male resident, did not follow up on Dr. Pan’s sign-out according to the accepted policy and

admitted that he never read the sign-out, even until the next morning, despite the fact that he had

been on call since the evening prior. A few weeks later, Dr. Munoz included in his own written

sign-outs for the residents to not call him for verbal sign-outs, despite the policy having been

changed to include both verbal and written sign-outs.

      44.       Significantly, although Dr. Pan was placed on clinical remediation for her alleged

failure to follow the sign-out procedure (even though she had), Jose Munoz, the male resident



                                                 7
            Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 8 of 22




assigned to care for the patient along with Dr. Pan who had failed to follow up on the sign-out

according to policy, was never disciplined in any way for this incident.

      45.       Thus, although Dr. Munoz had actually been the one who failed to follow the

sign-out policy, only Dr. Pan, the female resident who had followed policy, received discipline

or negative consequences as a result of this incident.

      46.       After the incident in October 2017, Temple sought to justify its discipline of Dr.

Pan by sending an email to the residents referring to a switch to oral sign-outs.

      47.       Dr. Pan strongly disputed the validity and justification for being placed on

academic remediation.

      48.       In an email to Temple Program Director Dr. Sameer Patel and Dr. James Fox, Dr.

Pan noted that, to the extent that the academic remediation was based on the incident on October

17, 2017, Dr. Pan had followed protocol with sign-outs and care, had been the one to recognize

the compartment syndrome that had been missed by the trauma service, and had properly

contacted the attending physician to report her findings.

      49.       Despite this, and despite lack of any legitimate reason to do so, Temple put Dr.

Pan on a performance improvement plan.

      50.       The basis for the remediation was in violation of the governing board for

residency training programs – the ACGME – guidelines. These guidelines mandate that

evaluations must be based on rotations lasting longer than two months and that evaluators must

have worked with the resident comprehensively in order to be able to adequately assess skills.

Neither of these two guidelines were followed with respect to the evaluation that caused Dr. Pan

to be placed on remediation.




                                                 8
            Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 9 of 22




      51.       Even though Dr. Pan did not deserve to be placed on a performance improvement

plan, she successfully completed all areas set forth in the performance improvement plan.

      52.       Accordingly, on December 5, 2018, Dr. Pan officially came off of clinical

remediation. Dr. Pan was never notified of this in any way. While Dr. Wagner’s evaluation was

what had caused Dr. Pan to be placed on remediation, Dr. Wagner failed to submit any further

evaluations regarding Dr. Pan’s clinical performance.

      53.       According to the performance improvement plan she had been issued, Dr. Pan

was supposed to meet with Dr. Patel every three months for re-evaluation, but Temple did not

adhere to this commitment. Additionally, Dr. Pan was not notified when she was taken off of

remediation by Dr. Patel some time during the Fall or Winter of 2018.

      54.       Due to the discriminatory application of clinical remediation and discipline, Dr.

Pan complained to various sources that the actions taken against her were unfair and

discriminatory.

      55.       For example, Dr. Pan further noted in her email to Dr. Patel and Dr. Fox that, with

regard to the clinical remediation and clinical competency issues, Dr. Pan believed that Temple’s

grounds for placing her on clinical remediation were unreasonable, biased and discriminatory.

      56.       In addition, on or about August 12, 2018, Dr. Pan sent an email to Temple that

she believed that Temple had placed her on clinical remediation on a discriminatory basis.

      57.       Dr. Pan also emailed Temple legal counsel regarding the inappropriate

remediation, who, in turn, forwarded the email to Director of Training Programs, Sue Coull.

      58.       After her complaints of discrimination, Temple retaliated against Dr. Pan and

increased its discriminatory practices against her.




                                                 9
        Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 10 of 22




      59.      Specifically, Ms. Coull and others at Temple engaged in a concerted effort to

retaliate against Dr. Pan due to her complaints.

      60.      Certain other male residents of the Program had also been placed on academic

remediation.

      61.      The treatment that Dr. Pan received from Temple regarding the academic

remediation, however, differed substantially from the treatment received by her male peers who

had also received academic remediation.

      62.      This disparate and unfavorable treatment, discrimination and retaliation prevented

Dr. Pan from receiving her earned medical license and subjected her to a lengthy medical

consultant investigation.

      63.      In November 2018, Dr. Pan submitted her application to receive her medical

license from the State of California.

      64.      After she submitted her application, Temple improperly reported to the Medical

Board of the State of California that Dr. Pan was on clinical remediation.

      65.      Notably, although Temple reported the remediation to the State Board of

California upon Dr. Pan’s application despite no clear requirement that Temple report it to the

State Board, Temple did not similarly report the academic remediation of Dr. Pan’s male peers.

      66.      In one example, Dr. Dare Ajibade, a male Temple Resident, had applied for his

medical license from the Texas Medical Board. Although Dr. Ajibade had been on academic

remediation at the time of his application, Temple did not report Dr. Ajibade’s academic

remediation to the Texas Medical Board.

      67.      Dr. Jose Munoz, a male Temple resident, had applied for his medical license from

the Florida Medical Board. Although Dr. Munoz had informed Dr. Pan that he had been on



                                                   10
         Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 11 of 22




academic remediation, Temple did not report Dr. Munoz’s academic remediation to the Florida

Medical Board.

      68.         In fact, Temple arbitrarily and wrongfully reported Dr. Pan’s academic

remediation to the California Medical Board, as academic remediations are not reportable

statuses under relevant Temple policies.

      69.         Additionally, Temple reported the remediation to a federal certification

verification agency, causing the remediation to then be wrongfully filed with both federal and

state agencies.

      70.         After Temple discriminatorily and improperly reported Dr. Pan’s academic

remediation to the California Medical Board, Dr. Pan was unable to obtain her medical license

from the California Medical Board for an extended period.

      71.         Dr. Pan requested that Temple assist her in clearing up any issue or confusion

regarding her Temple residency and fellowship so that Dr. Pan would be able to obtain her

medical license from the California Medical Board.

      72.         Despite her requests, Temple failed and/or refused to assist Dr. Pan in clearing up

any unresolved issue so that she could obtain her medical license from the California Medical

Board.

      73.         Specifically, on September 29, 2019, Dr. Patel agreed to testify on Dr. Pan’s

behalf before the Medical Board of California, but subsequently changed his mind and refused to

testify on her behalf.

      74.         Ultimately, Dr. Patel submitted a letter to the California Medical Board stating

that Dr. Pan did not misrepresent her status to the California Medical Board.




                                                   11
          Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 12 of 22




        75.    After Dr. Patel sent his letter to the California Medical Board on behalf of Dr.

Pan, in or about October 2019, the Board requested additional information regarding the

circumstances of Dr. Pan’s academic probation from Temple.

        76.    Despite Dr. Pan’s requests for assistance, and the request of the California

Medical Board, Ms. Coull declined, in writing, to provide any further information to the

California Medical Board.

        77.    Temple further discriminated and retaliated against Dr. Pan by refusing to allow

her to take her medical board exams on schedule in October 2019.

        78.    Temple indicated that the basis for its refusal to allow Dr. Pan to take her exams

in October 2019 was that Dr. Pan had been on academic probation during her final academic

year.

        79.    Again, however, and very tellingly, Temple treated Dr. Pan’s male peers

differently.

        80.    As noted above, like Dr. Pan, Dr. Ajibade also had been placed on academic

probation during his final academic year. However, Temple, upon information and belief,

permitted Dr. Ajibade to sit for his medical board exams on schedule in May 2020, which was

postponed to October 2020. Temple argued that Dr. Ajibade did not receive his final in-service

score before he had to register for his board exam, however, Dr. Pan also did not receive her

final in-service score before she had to register but was told to postpone her exam instead, per

protocol. Dr. Pan received notification that she ultimately passed her written board exam in

December 2021, while other recent graduates unfortunately did not pass.




                                                12
         Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 13 of 22




      81.         On or about July 30, 2019, Dr. Pan initiated an inquiry with Temple’s Human

Resources Department to question why she had been disciplined for the incident in October 2017

when Jose Munoz, the male resident who had not followed procedure, had not been disciplined.

      82.         Approximately one month later, on or about August 28, 2019, Dr. Pan received a

written sign-out policy from Human Resources Partner Jaqueline Nardi.

      83.         Ms. Nardi stated that the policy sent to Dr. Pan had been in effect at the time of

her discipline.

      84.         Notably, although the title of the Document refers to the Division of Plastic

Surgery, the policy references procedures for the vascular department and includes several

sections that are not relevant to the Division of Plastic Surgery.

      85.         When Dr. Pan raised these issues with Ms. Nardi, Ms. Nardi claimed to have

mistakenly sent the wrong policy, and, on September 4, 2019, she sent Dr. Pan another document

purporting to be the correct policy.

      86.         The “correct policy” sent was actually an identical document to the original one

sent, except that three of four references to “vascular residents” had been edited to now refer to

“plastic surgery residents.”

      87.         Even more tellingly, neither Dr. Pan nor any other plastic surgery resident had

ever been made aware of any such policy or protocol prior to the October 2017 incident. Past

and current residents have submitted signed statements that indicate that they have never seen

nor received such a policy.

      88.         When Dr. Pan questioned Dr. Patel and Ms. Coull when such policy had been

given to the residents, neither Dr. Patel nor Ms. Coull provided Dr. Pan with a date on which the

policy had been given.



                                                   13
           Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 14 of 22




      89.      Immediately after Temple provided the alleged protocol to Dr. Pan in August of

2019, they posted the same protocol on the residents’ website and required every plastic surgery

resident to acknowledge that they had received and reviewed the protocol.

      90.      When Temple Ethics Committee was notified that false documents were

submitted during a Human Resources investigation, the Compliance Officer failed to return any

emails or phone calls, and no investigation was ever done regarding the submission of the false

policy.

      91.      Dr. Pan was not allowed any grievance process to contest or address her

remediation. Though Temple’s legal team agreed that Dr. Pan qualified for FERPA, they

initially cited outdated legal sources to refuse her a hearing, and once presented with updated

sources, still continued to deny her an academic hearing.

      92.      Thereafter, Dr. Pan received her termination papers from her fellowship program

in California due to her continued lack of a California medical license as a result of Temple’s

actions.

      93.      Per probation policy, Dr. Pan was not permitted to take her written board exam as

scheduled, however, another similarly situated male was permitted to take his written board

exam as scheduled.

      94.      The timing of Temple’s actions taken against Dr. Pan, coupled with the lack of

any legitimate justification for such actions, indicates that the real reason for Temple’s treatment

of Dr. Pan was discrimination and retaliation for her complaints.

      95.      The reasons given for the adverse actions taken against Dr. Pan were pretextual.

      96.      Despite her loyalty, dedication and consistently excellent performance, and given

her treatment during her residency with Temple, Dr. Pan maintains that Temple discriminated



                                                 14
          Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 15 of 22




against her on the basis of her sex and retaliated against her for her complaints about

discrimination.

        97.    As a result of the discrimination, harassment, retaliation and other wrongful

conduct perpetrated against Dr. Pan, Dr. Pan has suffered significant financial losses including,

among other things, loss of employment and loss of wages.

        98.    Notably, Dr. Pan lost out on and continues to lose out on lucrative job

opportunities due to Temple’s improper and unlawful treatment of Dr. Pan, including due to the

fact that Dr. Pan could not start her Fellowship in California in a timely fashion.

        99.    Due to Defendant’s wrongful acts, Dr. Pan was denied a full unrestricted

California medical license for a significant period and it was only after she obtained legal

counsel and spent significant resources to undo Temple’s wrongful conduct that she was able to

obtain her license.

        100.   Typically, it takes approximately three months to obtain a California medical

license. As a result of Temple’s discriminatory and retaliatory actions, it took Dr. Pan over a

year.

        101.   Dr. Pan was compelled to obtain more than a dozen signed letters from

supervising physicians who had experience actually working with Dr. Pan to attest to her

clinical/surgical competence. Additionally, during the medical board investigation, an

independent medical consultant also reviewed Dr. Pan’s entire resident file, and deemed Dr. Pan

clinically sound. These facts cast further doubt on Temple’s decision to place Dr. Pan on

remediation.




                                                 15
         Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 16 of 22




      102.     Dr. Pan has suffered significant financial loss, harm to her reputation in the

community and other harm and damages as a direct and proximate result of the actions and

inactions of the Defendant.

      103.     As a result of the Defendant’s conduct described herein, Dr. Pan has incurred a

significant obligation for attorneys’ fees and costs of bringing this action.

      104.     As a result of Defendant’s conduct described herein, Dr. Pan has suffered and

continues to suffer significant emotional distress and hardship.

      105.     Dr. Pan has suffered and continues to suffer mental anguish and severe emotional

distress as a proximate result of the actions and/or inactions of Defendant.

      106.     Defendant and its agents acted with knowledge of, or in reckless disregard of the

probability that their actions and inactions would cause Dr. Pan to suffer emotional distress.

      107.     Defendant discriminated against and harassed Dr. Pan because of her sex, and

retaliated against Dr. Pan for complaining of the discrimination and harassment, in violation of

Title VII, the PHRA and the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance.

      108.     Defendant willfully violated Title VII, the PHRA and the Philadelphia Fair

Practices Ordinance, as Defendant knew that its actions violated the statutes and/or acted with

reckless disregard as to whether its actions violated Title VII, the PHRA and the Philadelphia

Fair Practices Ordinance.

                                           COUNT I
      Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000(e), et seq.

      109.     Plaintiff Judy Pan repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of all

previous paragraphs as if fully set forth at length herein.




                                                 16
         Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 17 of 22




      110.     Based on the foregoing, Defendant Temple University Hospital engaged in

unlawful employment practices in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as

amended by the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. § 2000(e) et seq.

      111.     In discriminating against and harassing Dr. Pan because of her sex, and in

retaliating against Dr. Pan for her complaints of discrimination and harassment, Defendant

violated Title VII.

      112.     Defendant’s violations were intentional and willful.

      113.     Defendant’s violations warrant the imposition of punitive damages.

      114.     As the direct and proximate result of the aforesaid unlawful employment practices

engaged in by Defendant Temple University Hospital, Plaintiff Judy Pan has sustained a loss of

earnings and earning potential, severe emotional and psychological distress, loss of self-esteem,

loss of future earning power, as well as back pay, front pay and interest due thereon, and has

incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

                                     COUNT II
                The Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. § 951, et seq.

      115.     Plaintiff Judy Pan repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of all

previous paragraphs as if fully set forth at length herein.

      116.     Based on the foregoing, Defendant Temple University Hospital engaged in

unlawful employment practices in violation of the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. §

951, et seq.

      117.     In discriminating against and harassing Dr. Pan because of her sex, and in

retaliating against Dr. Pan for her complaints of discrimination and harassment, Defendant

violated the PHRA.




                                                 17
         Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 18 of 22




      118.     As the direct and proximate result of the aforesaid unlawful employment practices

engaged in by Defendant Temple University Hospital, Plaintiff Judy Pan has sustained a loss of

earnings and earning potential, severe emotional and psychological distress, loss of self-esteem,

loss of future earning power, as well as back pay, front pay and interest due thereon, and has

incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

                                       COUNT III
                     PHILADELPHIA FAIR PRACTICES ORDINANCE
                           Philadelphia Code §§ 9-1100, et seq.

      119.     Plaintiff Judy Pan repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of all

previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

      120.     Based on the foregoing, Defendant Temple University Hospital engaged in

unlawful employment practices in violation of the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance.

      121.     In discriminating against and harassing Dr. Pan because of her sex, and in

retaliating against Dr. Pan for her complaints of discrimination and harassment, Defendant

violated the PFPO.

      122.     As the direct and proximate result of the aforesaid unlawful employment practices

engaged in by Defendant Temple University Hospital, Plaintiff Judy Pan has sustained a loss of

earnings and earning potential, severe emotional and psychological distress, loss of self-esteem,

loss of future earning power, as well as back pay, front pay and interest due thereon, and has

incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

                                           COUNT IV
                                        Breach of Contract

      123.     Plaintiff Judy Pan repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of all

previous paragraphs as if fully set forth at length herein.




                                                 18
         Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 19 of 22




      124.     Temple breached its agreement with Dr. Pan by improperly reporting her

academic remediation, and by failing to comply with applicable ACGME guidelines.

      125.     In addition, Temple policy clearly states that academic remediations are not

reportable statuses.

      126.     Although academic remediations are not to be reported to medical Boards,

Temple breached its agreement with Dr. Pan by reporting her academic remediation to the

California Medical License Board and a federal credentialing agency.

      127.     Per the remediation protocol, Dr. Pan was supposed to meet every three months

with the Program Director to review her progress. These meetings never took place, in direct

violation of the Program’s stated remediation protocol. In addition, Dr. Wagner, whose

evaluation placed Dr. Pan on remediation, failed to submit a follow-up evaluation the following

year. Dr. Pan was never notified when she was taken off of remediation.

      128.     Dr. Pan was required to postpone her written board exam by at least one year,

however, a similarly situation male resident was allowed to take his written board exam as

scheduled, without any delay.

      129.     All conditions precedent, if any, necessary to bring Dr. Pan’s action against

Temple have been satisfied.

      130.     As a direct, foreseeable, natural, ordinary and proximate result of Temple’s

breaches and other bad faith conduct, Plaintiff Judy Pan has suffered significant financial and

other damages including, but not limited to, loss of earnings, loss of employment opportunities,

severe emotional and mental distress, and other damages and harm.




                                                19
         Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 20 of 22




                                           COUNT V
                                     Breach of Oral Contract

      131.      Plaintiff Judy Pan repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of all

previous paragraphs as if fully set forth at length herein.

      132.      Count V is brought in the alternative to Count IV.

      133.      In the alternative, Temple orally agreed, promised and/or represented to Dr. Pan

that academic remediations would not be reported to any medical licensing board. It is written in

the program protocol that remediation is not a reportable status. Remediation status was not

reported with respect to two other male residents on their respective state medical license

applications.

      134.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, Temple reneged on its agreement, promises and

representations to Dr. Pan by inappropriately reporting that she had been on academic

remediation to the California Medical License Board and a federal credentialing agency.

      135.      In so doing, Temple has failed and refused to abide by the terms of its promises

and agreement with Dr. Pan.

      136.      Temple is in material breach of its oral agreement with Dr. Pan.

      137.      All conditions precedent, if any, necessary to bring Dr. Pan’s action against

Temple have been satisfied.

      138.      As a direct, foreseeable, natural, ordinary and proximate result of Temple’s

breaches and other bad faith conduct, Plaintiff Judy Pan has suffered significant financial and

other damages including, but not limited to, loss of earnings, loss of employment opportunities,

severe emotional and mental distress, and other damages and harm.




                                                 20
         Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 21 of 22




                                         COUNT VI
                      Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing

      139.     Plaintiff Judy Pan repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of all

previous paragraphs as if fully set forth at length herein.

      140.     Dr. Pan entered into the Employment Agreement with Temple for the position of

Medical Resident Fellow.

      141.     Dr. Pan worked tirelessly as a Medical Resident Fellow for Temple with the

understanding and expectation that Temple would foster and support Dr. Pan’s residency such

that Dr. Pan would obtain her medical license from a state Medical Board.

      142.     Contrary to supporting Dr. Pan in her efforts to obtain a medical license, Temple

thwarted Dr. Pan’s efforts by, among other things, making false and inaccurate reports to the

California Medical Board and a federal credentialing agency, and reporting Dr. Pan’s academic

remediation to the California Medical Board and a federal credentialing agency even though it

was against Temple policy.

      143.     As a direct, foreseeable, natural, ordinary and proximate result of Temple’s

breaches and other bad faith conduct, Plaintiff Judy Pan has suffered significant financial and

other damages including, but not limited to, loss of earnings, loss of employment opportunities,

severe emotional and mental distress, and other damages and harm.

                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF

      144.     Plaintiff Judy Pan repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of all

previous paragraphs as if fully set forth at length herein.

      WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Judy Pan respectfully requests that this Court enter judgment in

her favor and against Defendant Temple University Hospital, Inc. and Order:

       a. Appropriate equitable relief;

                                                 21
       Case 2:22-cv-03695-CMR Document 1 Filed 09/15/22 Page 22 of 22




      b. Defendant to compensate Plaintiff with a rate of pay and other benefits and

          emoluments of employment to which she would have been entitled had she not been

          subjected to unlawful discrimination, harassment and retaliation;

      c. Defendant to compensate Plaintiff with the wages and other benefits and emoluments

          of employment lost because of its unlawful conduct;

      d. Defendant to pay Plaintiff punitive damages;

      e. Defendant to pay Plaintiff compensatory damages for future pecuniary losses, pain

          and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of employment and other

          nonpecuniary losses as allowable;

      f. Defendant to pay Plaintiff’s costs of bringing this action and her attorneys’ fees;

      g. Plaintiff be granted any and all other remedies available pursuant to Title VII, the

          PHRA, the PFPO and Pennsylvania common law; and

      h. Such other and further relief as is deemed just and proper.

                                       JURY DEMAND

      Plaintiff Judy Pan hereby demands trial by jury as to all issues so triable.



                                            By: /s/ Christopher A. Macey, Jr.
                                                Christopher A. Macey, Jr., Esquire
                                                Bell & Bell LLP
                                                1617 John F. Kennedy Boulevard
                                                Suite 1254
                                                Philadelphia, PA 19103
                                                (215) 569-2500

                                                 Attorneys for Plaintiff Judy Pan



Dated: September 15, 2022



                                               22
