Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/63295028/1/piety-foley-v-drexel-university/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in PIETY FOLEY v. DREXEL UNIVERSITY (E.D. Pa., 2:22-cv-01777) – CourtListener.com

BRIAN J. FOLEY, Attorney at Law
BY: BRIAN J. FOLEY, ESQ. (PA ID No. 68806)
6701 Germantown Avenue, Suite 200
Philadelphia, PA 19119
(267) 930-4425
Attorney for Plaintiff Marilyn Gaye Piety Foley



                      IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA



MARILYN GAYE PIETY FOLEY,                        :
                                                 :
       Plaintiff                                 :
                                                 :      CIVIL ACTION NO. 22-cv-1777
       v.                                        :
                                                 :
DREXEL UNIVERSITY                                :
3141 Chestnut Street,
Philadelphia, PA 19104                           :

and                                              :

ROGER KURTZ                                      :
3141 Chestnut Street,
Philadelphia, PA 19104,                          :      JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
                                                 :
      Defendants.                                :
__________________________________________

                                      COMPLAINT

                             PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

       1.      This is an action for an award of damages including punitive

damages, attorneys’ fees, equitable relief, and any other available and

appropriate relief for Plaintiff Marilyn Gaye Piety Foley ("Piety"), a Professor of


                                        Page 1 of 54
Philosophy who is employed by Defendant Drexel University and supervised by

Defendant Roger Kurtz. Dr. Piety has been harmed by Defendant's intentional

illegal discrimination that resulted in harassment, discrimination, a hostile

workplace, retaliation for protected activity, unequal pay, and breach of contract.

       2.      This action is brought under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of

1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000(e), et seq., as amended ("Title VII"), Title IX of the

Education Amendments Act of 1972, 20 U.S.C. § 1681, et seq. ("Title IX"), the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Act 43 P.S. §951 et seq. ("PHRA"), and

Pennsylvania common law.



                                      JURISDICTION

       3.      This Court has original jurisdiction over all civil actions arising

under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States pursuant to 28

U.S.C. §§ 1331, 1343, and 1391 and, under 28 U.S.C. § 1367, supplemental

jurisdiction over state law claims.

        4.     All conditions precedent to filing this suit have been fulfilled.

                                           VENUE

        5.     This action properly lies in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, pursuant

to 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b), because the claims arose in this judicial district and Defendants

conduct business in this judicial district.



                                         Page 2 of 54
                                        PARTIES

      6.     Plaintiff, Marilyn Gaye Piety Foley (hereinafter “Dr. Piety,” "Piety"), is an

adult female citizen and resident of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She is Drexel's only

tenured full Professor of Philosophy.

      7.     Defendant Drexel University ("Drexel") is a private research university in

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, one of the 10 largest employers in the city, with more than

10,000 faculty and professional staff, 24,000 students and an endowment of more than

$1 billion. Drexel receives federal funding in various forms, including grants and

federal student loans provided to Drexel by its students or given to Drexel by the

federal government directly.

      8.     At all relevant times, Defendant Drexel University ("Drexel") acted by

and through its agents, servants, and employees, who were acting within the scope of

their authority, course of employment, and under the direct control of Drexel.

      9.     Drexel purports to have a "Discrimination, Harassment, and Bias Incident

Prevention Policy," in which Drexel claims that it considers acts of discrimination,

harassment and bias to be "unacceptable and counter to its core mission and values,"

and "encourages" women faculty members and others to report such discrimination to

Drexel's Office of Equality and Diversity ("OED"), which Drexel says will apply Title IX

and other laws and policies and investigate and address the discrimination reasonably

and promptly. Drexel promises its employees that "Retaliation in any form will not be
                                        Page 3 of 54
tolerated against an individual who makes a report with the University or participates

in an investigation of any such report."

      10.    Defendant Roger Kurtz ("Dr. Kurtz") has served as Head of the

Department of English and Philosophy at Drexel since Fall 2017. He is a fully tenured

Professor of English. His job duties include managing course offerings and assigning

professors to teach courses, developing programs, resolving disputes, avoiding illegal

discriminatory conduct by faculty, abiding by Drexel policies regarding discrimination

and workplace harassment and retaliation, and helping faculty members develop a

significant body of scholarly work in alignment with Drexel priorities.

      11.    In addition, Dr. Kurtz has the power to hire and fire and appoint faculty

to positions directing programs within the Department of English and Philosophy,

participating in the promotion and tenure process, conducting performance reviews

and assessments, and determining annual raises for faculty in the Department,

allocating funds for travel and research, and participating in determining the annual

salary of faculty members in the Department. Kurtz, as a Department Head, is

required to establish and external advisory committee but has not done so.



                                            FACTS

               Dr. Piety's 20-Year-Plus of Service to Defendant Drexel

      12.    From on or about September 1, 1998, Dr. Piety has been employed by

Drexel. Piety began as a visiting professor. She had just returned to the United States
                                      Page 4 of 54
from a position at DIS, Denmark's International Studies Program, then a division of the

University of Copenhagen. Piety, American born, went to Denmark on a Fulbright

Scholarship to complete the work on her Ph.D. dissertation on the philosophy of the

19th century Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard. Piety earned her B.A. from

Earlham College, her M.A. from Bryn Mawr College, and her Ph.D. in Philosophy from

McGill University.

       13.    Drexel promoted/hired Dr. Piety to a position on Drexel's tenure track in

2001, as an Assistant Professor. In its "mid-tenure" review of Piety in 2005, Drexel's

then-Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences Donna Murasko instructed Piety to focus

on her work about, and become a highly recognized expert regarding, the philosophy

of Kierkegaard, as she worked toward achieving tenure and promotion.

       14.    In 2007, Drexel awarded Piety tenure and promoted her to Associate

Professor.

       15.    In 2016, Drexel promoted Piety to full Professor based on her exemplary

teaching, service, and scholarship, primarily on Kierkegaard. Piety is one of the few

full Professors in the Department of English and Philosophy, and is the only full

Professor in Drexel's Philosophy Program ("the Program," "Philosophy Program"),

which is within the Department of English and Philosophy ("the Department").

       16.    Until Drexel promoted Piety to full Professor in 2016, there had been no

full Professors of Philosophy at Drexel for about two decades.


                                      Page 5 of 54
      17.    Piety is a scholar of the work of the 19th century Danish philosopher

Soren Kierkegaard, who is considered the father of modern existentialism. Among

other things, Piety has translated two of Kierkegaard's works for Oxford University

Press (in one book) and written a book on Kierkegaard's epistemology published by

Baylor University Press. Piety has published numerous articles about Kierkegaard's

philosophy in scholarly journals and books. Her work about Kierkegaard has been

anthologized and translated into other languages. Piety also maintains a blog on the

philosophy of Soren Kierkegaard called Piety on Kierkegaard. To a lesser degree, Piety

also teaches and writes about other areas of philosophy including Plato and

Philosophy of Sport. Piety won an award for a paper she presented at a conference on

Business Ethics.

      18.    Piety earns highly positive teaching evaluations from her students and,

although not required to do so by Drexel or the Department or Program, assigns her

students numerous writing projects and provides extensive feedback as part of

championing her students and helping them develop into better writers and thinkers.

      19.    Piety has served on and/or chaired various faculty committees at Drexel.




    Background: Discrimination and Hostile Workplace Against Female Faculty

               In the Department of English and Philosophy, Men Rule

      20.    Drexel informs its employees that discrimination against women and


                                      Page 6 of 54
minorities is "unacceptable and counter to [Drexel's] core mission and values," and

assures its employees that it will not tolerate "retaliation in any form ... against an

individual who makes a report [of discrimination] with the University or participates

in an investigation of any such report."

       21.    Drexel's Department of English and Philosophy, and the Philosophy

Program, have long been a source of discrimination and hostility toward female faculty

members. Retired Associate Dean Alexander Friedlander has described the

Department as "an old-boys' club." Female faculty members, including Piety, have

requested help from Drexel officials, who all have refused to stop the bullying and

hostility.

       22.    Piety has suffered from this hostile work environment. As described in

detail below, she has been retaliated against for trying to protect herself and other

faculty members from it.

       23.    Shortly after Piety was awarded tenure in 2007 and published, in rapid

succession, the above-mentioned translations for Oxford University Press, published in

2009, and the book about Kierkegaard’s epistemology for Baylor University Press,

published in 2010, colleagues began to bully and harass and discriminate against her.

       24.    When Piety was promoted to full Professor in 2016, the personal attacks

by colleagues increased. With this promotion, Piety became the highest-ranking

professor in the Philosophy Program, and she now outranked a male associate


                                        Page 7 of 54
professor, Dr. Jacques Catudal now retired, who had served as the Philosophy

Program's first Director, from 1987 to 1991, from 1993 to 1997, and again from 2007 to

2010. Catudal often verbally attacked and ridiculed Piety and, including when he was

the program director, encouraged faculty members to join him in bullying Piety. He

assured junior faculty members that he would protect them from any consequences of

this harassment.

      25.    A formal complaint of sex discrimination was made by a female faculty

member from the English Program in the Department, on or about 2015 to Drexel's

Office of Equality and Diversity (OED). Around this time, Piety made an informal

complaint to the OED but did not pursue it to the level of a formal complaint. OED

interviewed her a witness in the other professor's formal complaint.

      26.    The result of this complaint, after a purported investigation by OED, was

that, on or about 2015, that the Department was declared a "hostile work environment."

      27.    However, OED did not conclude that this hostility was grounded in sex

discrimination. Rather, OED turned the matter over to Drexel's Human Resources

Department (HR), which promised to conduct workshops on "civility."

      28.    HR did not provide workshops but instead merely held meetings where

faculty were permitted to air grievances.

      29.    The hostility toward female faculty members persisted.

      30.    After the Department was deemed hostile, the Head stepped down. An


                                     Page 8 of 54
interim Head, Ira Taffer, a male chemistry professor, was appointed. There was also a

co-Head, a male Professor of English, Richard Astro, who lived in Florida fulltime and

would visit Drexel now and then to check in on the Department. A search for a new

Department Head was announced.

      31.      The Department continued to be managed by temporary leadership. In

the 2016-2017 academic year, Drexel interviewed several candidates. After the process,

Drexel hired Defendant Dr. Roger Kurtz, a Ph.D. in English, to serve as Head.

      32.      Since then, the hostility and discrimination in the Department has

continued unabated. Piety continued to suffer from it, including when it was

perpetrated by colleagues allied with Catudal. Some women faculty have continued to

try to take action to address the discrimination, including by filing complaints with

Drexel's OED.



            Women Hold Few Positions of Power in the Department of English and
                 Philosophy -- and None at all in the Philosophy Program

      33.      There has not been a female Head of the Department of English and

Philosophy in more than 25 years.

      34.      That is despite that, approximately half of the approximately 100 faculty

in the department are women (precise figures cannot be given because the number of

adjunct faculty varies from term to term).

      35.      And that is despite that, there is a greater number of tenured/tenure-track


                                       Page 9 of 54
("tenure-line") professors who are women. Of that group, there are six male professors

and eight female professors.

       36.     However, the number of male full professors equals the number of female

full professors -- there are four of each. Piety is the only full Professor of Philosophy.

According to Department Bylaws, the Head of the Department must be a tenured full

professor, but there has not been a female Head, or female interim Head, in more than

25 years, if ever.

       37.     Male professors hold almost all of the important program director

positions. In addition to Defendant Kurtz as Department Head, the Assistant

Department Head is also a man. The First Year Writing Program is directed by a man.

The University Writing Program is co-directed by a man and a woman. The Drexel

Publishing Group is directed by a man. The Philosophy Program is directed by a man.

None of these program directors is a tenure-line professor, but rather are lower

ranking professors with contracts for a period of years that may be renewed, without

any possibility for tenure. There are other programs, primarily “certificate programs,”

that are either directed by women or co-directed by both a man and woman. Drexel

and the Department deem these programs to be less important than the

aforementioned programs, as they enroll fewer students and are less critical to the core

curriculum.

       38.     There are several female tenure-line professors in the Department that


                                       Page 10 of 54
are higher ranking than the directors of the programs.

      39.    Shortly after assuming the role of Department Head, Kurtz replaced the

woman who had served as the Assistant Department Head, Associate Professor

Jennifer Yusin, with a man, Associate Professor Nathan Hanna.

      40.    Shortly after assuming the role of Department Head, Kurtz removed the

woman who was the director of the Drexel Publishing Group, Kathleen Volk-Miller,

and replaced her with a man, Scott Stein.

      41.    There has never been a female director of the Philosophy Program.

      42.    Piety has requested numerous times to be appointed director of the

Philosophy Program. Her requests have always been rejected, first by former

Department Head Dr. Abioseh Porter and then by Defendant Kurtz.

      43.    On or about Spring 2018, Kurtz reported that the Philosophy Program

Director, Dr. Peter Amato, was stepping down. Kurtz called for applications from

philosophy faculty who would be interested in serving as Director.

      44.    Piety applied. Kurtz rejected her application. He re-appointed Amato.

      45.    Amato is below Piety in academic rank: he is not a tenure-line professor

but serves as a Teaching Professor, with a renewable contract for a period of years.

Like Piety, Amato has worked at Drexel for more than 20 years. He has expressed at

various times that the Program should be directed by a tenure-line faculty -- Amato is

the only non-tenure-line Director to lead the Program.


                                     Page 11 of 54
                         Drexel Makes Piety Use Her Married Name

       46.    Piety took her husband's last name after marriage in 2001 for personal

reasons. She immediately informed the Office of Payroll and Benefits of her new

married name as she was required to do so for pay, benefits, and tax purposes, but

explained at that time that she wanted to continue to use her maiden name, “Piety” for

academic purposes.

       47.    Piety made this request because by the time she got married, she already

had already built a scholarly reputation under her maiden name Piety.

       48.    Drexel refused Piety's request.

       49.    In response, Piety explained that male faculty members usually do not

need to make such a request. Her name was changed to Foley in Drexel's faculty

directory, on her course listings, and she was required to use it in her syllabi and other

teaching materials.

       50.    Piety asked her colleagues to continue to refer to her as Marilyn Piety, but

some of them, including Catudal, refused to honor Piety's request and began calling

her "Marilyn Foley," intending to humiliate her.

       51.    Piety made additional requests to Drexel to remedy the situation. She

informed Drexel that she had missed out on various professional opportunities,

because some faculty members from other universities and colleges had tried to locate

her for publishing or scholarly presentation opportunities but did not find her, as she


                                      Page 12 of 54
was listed on Drexel's website only as Marilyn Foley.

        52.   Drexel's refusal to make this change obscured Piety's professional

accomplishments from colleagues and students, as those who did not know her

professional name and Googled "Marilyn Foley" would not yield the result that

searching for "M.G. Piety" would yield.

        53.   In response to Piety's repeated requests, Drexel claimed that making this

change would be technologically impossible to do in Drexel's computer system,

because, among other things, paychecks had to be issued to employees in their legal

name.

        54.   Piety accepted this explanation from Drexel officials until 2017. That year,

she served as a Visiting Professor for a semester at Haverford College, where she

taught a seminar on Kierkegaard’s philosophy. Haverford is a small, liberal arts college

that does not focus on science and technology to the high level that Drexel does

        55.   Haverford let Piety use M.G. Piety professionally, that is, in the course

catalog and on the students’ schedules, etc., and issued the paychecks to Marilyn Foley.

        56.   On or about 2018, Piety reached out to Drexel's Office of Equality and

Diversity ("OED") for help, asking that Drexel let her use her professional name as

Haverford had.

        57.   A solution was offered: Drexel would revert to using "Piety" in the entire

Drexel system. This would mean, the OED explained to Piety, that even Piety's health


                                      Page 13 of 54
insurance cards would use her professional name, not her legal name.

       58.    Piety agreed, because she was assured that this would not be a problem.

However, Piety has had at least one health insurance claim rejected because her legal

name was not used. Drexel has continued to refuse to do anything further.

       59.    Even after Piety’s name was changed back to Piety in most of Drexel's

system, several faculty members in the Department and the Program, rallied by

Catudal, continued to refer to Piety as "Dr. Foley," and "Marilyn Foley," despite their

awareness that Piety wished to be referred to as Piety, and despite her express requests

that she be referred to as Piety.

       60.    This harassment of Piety was grounded in animus toward Piety because

of her sex, and was a deliberate attempt to obscure her professional accomplishments

from her colleagues and hence to damage her standing in the Program, the

Department, and at Drexel.




       Female Faculty Are Subjected to Disproportionate Teaching Assignments and
                                      Opportunities

       61.    Drexel also discriminates against women in its Philosophy Program

through a practice of disproportionately assigning female tenure-line professors to

teach more "introductory" and lower-level courses than it assigns to male tenure-line

professors.

       62.    The expertise of women is devalued throughout Drexel, as is exemplified
                                      Page 14 of 54
in the salary discrepancies between male and female faculty.

      63.    Piety, along with other female tenure-line philosophy professors, has

been assigned to teach a disproportionate number of introductory courses.

      64.    From the 2011-2012 academic year to the present, despite that, for much if

not most of this time the number of male tenure-line philosophy professors has been

double that of the female tenure-line professors, female professors have taught more of

the introductory courses. Female tenure-line professors have taught 54 introductory,

"100-level" courses. Male tenure-line professors have taught 47 .

      65.    One of the female professors, Jennifer Yusin, included in these numbers

and calculations, was hired by Drexel to fill an open position in the English Program,

but because of the overlap between her research interests and philosophy, was

appointed to teach both English and Philosophy.

      66.    Although Yusin, who is a tenured associate professor, has been teaching

philosophy courses since at least 2016, Kurtz, Amato and other male professors have

dismissed her expertise in philosophy and have strongly opposed treating her as a full-

fledged member of the Philosophy Program. For example, Kurtz and Amato refuse to

allow Yusin to attend Philosophy Program meetings despite that policies that will

affect her are debated and decided.

      67.    Kurtz and Amato further discriminate against female faculty by

assigning many of the advanced, upper-level philosophy courses -- usually relatively


                                      Page 15 of 54
small seminars -- to male professors instead of female professors even where the

female professor outranks the male professor, and even when there is already a female

professor who has more scholarly expertise in the subject area than the male professor

whom Kurtz and Amato choose to teach the course has.

      68.    Likewise, many of the advanced, upper-level philosophy courses are

assigned to adjunct and Teaching Professors, who do not have as part of their job

description any requirement that they research, write, and publish scholarly work.

These professors are outranked by tenure-line professors. Teaching Professors are

routinely assigned to teach advanced courses, even when there are more expert female

tenure-line professors willing and able to teach them. As a result, these higher-ranking

female tenure-line professors toil away teaching large sections of introductory courses

that do not dovetail with their research and thus detract from the time necessary to

meet their job requirement of researching and writing and publishing scholarly work.




       Drexel Devalues Women's Expertise: Kurtz and Amato Assign a Kierkegaard
                 Course to a Teaching Professor Less Expert than Piety

      69.    On or about February 26, 2020, Piety gained further insight regarding

how little female faculty members' professional expertise is valued in the Philosophy

program and at Drexel.

      70.    At a meeting of the Philosophy program faculty, the Program director,

Amato, announced that he was scheduling a Teaching Professor to teach a course on
                                     Page 16 of 54
    Kierkegaard in the coming winter term, nine months from then.

           71.    This news came as a surprise to Piety. The opportunity to teach a course

    in her specialty arises only rarely, given the small size of the Program. In fact, in the

    past ten years, the Program has offered a course on Kierkegaard just four times.

           72.    Opportunities to teach a course on Kierkegaard are so rare that Piety

    spent some of her research leave time in 2017 to teach a seminar on Kierkegaard as a

    Visiting Professor at Haverford College.

           73.    The Teaching Professor whom Amato and Kurtz assigned to teach the

    course on Kierkegaard is less expert than Piety regarding Kierkegaard. Nor does this

    teaching professor have as part of her job description any requirement that she

    research, write, and publish scholarly work.1

           74.    That this rare teaching assignment was given to a teaching professor

    instead of to a tenured, full professor who is a well-known expert in the subject matter

    is contrary to academic custom and practice, including at Drexel.

           75.    It was also contrary to academic custom and practice, including at Drexel,

    that such an opportunity would be given to a teaching professor without the official

    who makes the course assignments first offering such opportunity to any higher-




1
  Piety is not saying that all Tenure-Line Professors are more qualified or more expert than all
Teaching Professors. Rather, expertise must be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. The main
difference is that, unlike Tenure-Line Professors, Teaching Professors are not required, as part of
their job, to research, write, and publish scholarly work.
                                          Page 17 of 54
ranking, more expert faculty members.

       76.     Assigning courses to the faculty member most expert in the subject

matter benefits students.

       77.     It also benefits the faculty member, especially where the faculty member

has, as part of her job description, the requirement that she research, write, and publish

scholarly works in books and academic journals. Upper-level seminars provide

scholars the opportunity to develop and refine their ideas as a step in the process

toward publishing and sharing them with the wider scholarly community.

       78.     Kurtz and Amato, however, never even told Piety of this rare

opportunity.

       79.     Instead, Amato used the announcement of the teaching assignment at the

meeting of philosophy faculty on or about February 26, 2020 to deliberately shock,

humiliate, and discriminate against Piety in front of colleagues, by devaluing and

ignoring her expertise.

       80.     Both Amato and Kurtz justified the course assignment on the grounds

that it was part of an "historical sequence," such that it necessarily had to be taught

during a term when Piety normally did not teach.

       81.     However, that claim was false. The course, PHIL 485, that was

purportedly “required” during this particular term was a “variable topics” course.

That is, all that was required was a course on any “modern philosopher,” not a course


                                      Page 18 of 54
on Kierkegaard. Also, Drexel students often take philosophy courses out of historical

sequence, so there is not, in fact, any necessity to offer the variable topics course PHIL

485 during a particular term .

       82.    Amato and Kurtz deliberately ignored Piety when she provided them

with that explanation. That is because Amato intentionally selected the topic of

Kierkegaard for this variable topics course so that he could assign it to the teaching

professor, and Kurtz supported him in this act of discrimination and harassment.

       83.    On the other hand, in the Philosophy program, such a devaluing of a male

professor's expertise rarely occurs.

       84.    In fact, the Philosophy Program prioritizes male professors and their

expertise over that of female professors.

       85.    For example, in 2010, Piety told Dr. Amato that she wanted to teach a

course, "Philosophy of Mind." At that time, Piety was a tenured associate professor.

       86.    Amato instructed Piety that she must first ask another faculty member, a

male adjunct professor whom Amato said was expert in that area, if he would like to

teach the course. If he did, Amato said, Amato would have that male professor teach

the course instead of Piety.

       87.    Unlike Piety, this male faculty member was not a tenure-line professor

but was a part time, adjunct instructor. Unlike Piety, he did not have a Ph.D.

       88.    Amato forced Piety to speak with the male instructor to deliberately


                                       Page 19 of 54
humiliate her, effectively making her seek a lower-ranking man's permission to teach a

course she wanted to teach.

       89.    Piety did not complain but did as Amato ordered. The male adjunct

professor turned down the offer because, he said, he feared that such a specialized

course in such a small program as Drexel's might not garner enough students and

would be canceled at the last minute, leaving him having to scramble to prepare to

teach a different course, or no course at all; he was not paid a salary but rather was

paid per courses taught.

       90.    After Amato deliberately humiliated Piety at the Philosophy Program

meeting, Piety asked Defendant Kurtz to consider intervening in a non-confrontational

way to let her teach the course, given that it was unlikely Drexel would offer a seminar

on Kierkegaard again for several years.

       91.    In response, Kurtz dismissed Piety and her argument that his and

Amato's assigning of this class to a less expert teaching professor who did not have any

requirement to write and publish scholarship was contrary to academic custom,

including at Drexel.

       92.    When Piety sought help from then-Dean of the College of Arts and

Sciences, Norma Bouchard, Bouchard likewise dismissed her and tried to gaslight her

that no such academic custom exists.

       93.    Piety suffered the same treatment when she sought help from Vice


                                       Page 20 of 54
Provost Erin Horvat, who responded in a patently sexist manner. Horvat wrote in an

email dated March 17, 2020: "I am sorry to learn of your distress upon seeing that

another faculty member in your department is scheduled to teach a course that you

would prefer to teach and for which you feel more qualified”(emphasis added).

          94.   Notwithstanding that the particular teaching professor Kurtz and Amato

assigned to teach the course has published scholarly work about Kierkegaard, the

comparison is not a matter of feminine "feelings." Rather, there is, objectively, no

comparison between the two professors when it comes to academic rank, and scholarly

achievement and reputation in the field of Kierkegaard scholarship. (This comparison

says, and is intended to say, more about Piety than about this teaching professor, who

has published work on Kierkegaard.) In fact, this teaching professor teaches all of the

Program's courses on the philosopher in whose work she is expert, Charles Sanders

Peirce.

          95.   Dean Horvat, and subsequently Drexel's Provost Jensen and President

Fry all ignored Piety's request and explanation that academic custom dictates that the

most expert professor is assigned to teach the course or at least is first offered such an

opportunity, especially where, as here, such an opportunity so rarely arises.

          96.   All the Drexel officials Piety appealed to, including Defendant Kurtz,

ignored that Piety was being deprived of a significant opportunity to meet her job

requirement of researching, writing and publishing by being denied this rare


                                       Page 21 of 54
    opportunity to teach a course in her area of specialization.

             97.    All the Drexel officials Piety appealed to, including Defendant Kurtz,

    ignored that having Piety teach the course would benefit Drexel students. The

    opportunity for a Drexel student to take a course on Kierkegaard from an expert as

    accomplished as Piety arises four times in a decade -- four times in 40 Drexel academic

    terms.

             98.    All the Drexel officials Piety appealed to, including Defendant Kurtz,

    ignored Piety’s explanation that the course in question was a “variable topics” course

    and hence did not need to be a course on Kierkegaard.

             99.    All the Drexel officials Piety appealed to, including Defendant Kurtz,

    ignored that Dr. Piety told them that such devaluing of expertise at Drexel does not

    happen when the expert is male. Instead, they said that because the course was

    assigned to a woman, the assignment could not possibly be sex discrimination.2

             100.   Instead of taking any of Piety's concerns seriously, all the Drexel officials

    Piety appealed to, including Defendant Kurtz, treated Piety as if she were a prima

    donna demanding that she, and only she, be allowed to teach courses on Kierkegaard,

    and that she, and only she, somehow "owned" all Kierkegaard courses at Drexel and




2
  The fatuousness of this argument becomes even more obvious if the context is changed to one
with which lawyers and judges are more familiar: a law firm. What Piety suffered is akin to a
female law partner with noted expertise in a particular area of law learning that her partners are
assigning incoming cases in her area of expertise to associates instead of to her.
                                            Page 22 of 54
believed she was entitled to a "monopoly" on them.

      101.   Piety responded to this obtuse, sexist effort to twist her arguments and

falsely portray her according to a negative stereotype of women by explaining that she

was in no way making such a demand. Indeed, Piety had not complained when,

earlier, this teaching professor taught a course on Kierkegaard. (This professor has

taught two of the four courses offered on Kierkegaard in the last 10 years.)

      102.   Kurtz told Piety that he would let her teach a Kierkegaard course the

term immediately following the scheduled Kierkegaard course, and, contrary to

Department practice, scheduled her to teach the course without first consulting her.

However, Kurtz's offer was an empty gesture, and Kurtz knew it was. Drexel’s

philosophy program has so few majors that a second course on the same subject would

almost certainly have been cancelled at the last minute due to low enrollment. Kurtz

was aware that student interest was such that the Philosophy Program has offered just

four Kierkegaard courses in the last decade, despite that at least two professors wanted

to teach such courses.

      103.   In addition, Kurtz's offer was not merely an empty gesture but a

punitive, bullying tactic. Kurtz and Amato have often bullied Piety by scheduling her,

without her permission, to teach a course that would almost certainly fail to meet the

minimum enrollment requirement, and which Kurtz and Amato would then cancel on

the eve of the term. This bullying has repeatedly forced Piety to scramble at the last


                                     Page 23 of 54
minute to, suddenly and unexpectedly, prepare and teach a course other than the one

she had prepared to teach.

        104.    The dismissive, bullying, sexist, disingenuous, and gaslighting responses

of Kurtz, Bouchard, Horvat, and Jensen to Piety's request to teach the Kierkegaard

course, which sought to portray Piety as seeking to "monopolize" a particular subject,

ignored an elephant in the room -- that in Drexel's Philosophy Program, there is a

professor who obviously "owns" courses in a particular subject matter: male tenured

Associate Professor Andrew Smith.

        105.    Smith is an expert on issues concerning philosophy and the environment.

In the period from academic year 2011-present, the philosophy courses "Philosophy of

the Environment," "Environmental Ethics," and "Philosophy of Sustainability," have

been offered a total of 23 times.

        106.    Smith has been assigned to teach these courses 21 of the 23 times they

were offered.

        107.    The only times any of these 23 courses were not taught by Smith was

when Smith was on a leave term. A male adjunct professor who has a scholarly interest

in the subject matter temporarily took over.

        108.    Generally, however, none of these courses is ever taught during a term

when Smith does not teach. The offerings are scheduled around Smith's expertise and

availability.


                                       Page 24 of 54
       109.   Smith has always been accorded more respect and better treatment than

Piety despite that he is younger than Piety, has at all times during his employment at

Drexel been junior to her in rank, and has not yet earned the status in his field that

Piety has earned in hers. For example, after Piety was tenured, Catudal announced at a

Philosophy program meeting that Smith, then a junior assistant professor, was "the

face of the Philosophy program." Smith was likewise appointed Assistant Director of

the Philosophy Program when he was junior to Piety. Catudal and others described

Smith as being "groomed" to lead the Program. Drexel made this appointment despite

that Smith, unlike Piety, is on record as having no interest in directing the philosophy

program.

       110.   Piety has already suffered harm to her reputation as a result of Kurtz's

and Amato's decision to deprive her of the rare opportunity to teach a course about

Kierkegaard's philosophy. After the assignment was given to the teaching professor, a

graduate student at another institution contacted Piety to ask if she and Drexel would

let him audit any Kierkegaard course she might teach. Piety had to tell the graduate

student, who was studying at a prestigious university, that she was not scheduled to

teach a course on Kierkegaard. She feared what his reaction would be when he learned

that someone else, someone less known in the field and not a tenure-line professor, was

scheduled to teach such a course. Piety worried that the graduate student would

wonder if Drexel officials believed there was some problem with Piety’s teaching, or


                                      Page 25 of 54
that she was unpopular with students and colleagues.



              Dr. Piety Formally Reports the Discrimination and Hostile Work
              Environment to Drexel's Office of Equality and Diversity ("OED")



       111.   Drexel's causing Piety to lose the rare opportunity to teach the

Kierkegaard course, and Drexel's dismissive and sexist responses to her complaints

about it, all contravened Drexel's promise to faculty that sex discrimination is

"unacceptable and counter to [Drexel's] core mission and values,"

       112.   It also contravened the instructions then-Dean Muarsko gave Piety in her

mid-tenure review in 2005 to focus on developing herself as a Kierkegaard scholar to

secure tenure.

       113.      Piety regarded this bullying and harassment and humiliation and

gaslighting as the last straw. On or about May 5, 2020, Piety formally complained to

Drexel's OED about this discrimination, as well other discrimination she had suffered

spanning her career at Drexel. Piety reported discrimination and harassment and

bullying by Kurtz, Amato, Catudal, and Professor of English Doreen Saar. She formally

named all of them as Respondents except for Amato, because Amato at all times acted

under Kurtz's authority and direction, and Piety feared Drexel might simply scapegoat

Amato, who is not tenured, for the discrimination by Kurtz and the others.




                                      Page 26 of 54
              Retaliation, and Further Discrimination and Hostility Against Piety

       114.    Since complaining about the Kierkegaard course assignment to Kurtz and

upper-level officials, and then filing her formal OED complaint on May 5, 2020, Dr.

Piety has suffered retaliation -- and further hostility -- from Defendant Kurtz and

others. (Piety filed additional complaints about the various retaliations. )

       115.    For example, on or about May 2020, Kurtz and Amato retaliated against

Piety by first scheduling her to teach a 400-level "variable topics" course on

Kierkegaard right after the Kierkegaard course by the Teaching Professor, despite

Piety's objection that such a course would likely be canceled given that an insufficient

number of students from the small program would take a second offering of

Kierkegaard so soon, such that the course would likely be canceled at the last minute.

       116.    When Piety turned it down and explained her reasoning, Kurtz and

Amato did not simply let her teach a different 400-level "variable topics" course on a

subject of her choosing but instead scheduled her to teach a 200-level course. This

reduction was intended to further humiliate Piety and diminish colleagues' and

students' perceptions of her.

       117.    Catudal and Amato retaliated against Piety. On or about May 2020,

Amato scheduled Piety and Catudal to teach a course on the dialogues of Plato during

the same academic term. Catudal and Amato knew that such a course would be in

competition with Piety’s. There is no question that the philosophy program is too small


                                      Page 27 of 54
to support two courses on the same specialized topic during the same term. One of the

courses most likely would have to be cancelled at the last minute due to low

enrollment.

       118.   The course that would most likely be canceled at the last minute was

Piety's, and that was Catudal's and Amato's intention. Piety's course, a 400-level

course, had prerequisites that Catudal's 200-level course did not require. Prerequisites

can be waived, but students are likely to be deterred from taking a course at such a

high level, particularly when there is a lower-level course available on the same subject

without the prerequisites.

       119.   Indeed, Drexel’s philosophy program has had great difficulty in the past

filling upper-level philosophy seminars, even when other courses were not scheduled

to compete with them. For that reason, this scheduling of two courses on precisely the

same, highly specialized subject, in the same term, has occurred rarely, if ever, in

Drexel's philosophy program.

       120.   Also, Catudal has defamed Piety to students throughout the years, which

would harm enrollment in her course competing with his. Catudal, who despite

having taught at Drexel far longer than Piety (and is now retired), was an associate

professor, not a full professor as Piety is. He also, by his own admission, is not an

"active scholar," meaning he had published very little since gaining tenure. Catudal

began attacking Piety shortly after she gained tenure and published two books in rapid


                                      Page 28 of 54
succession, the first with Oxford in 2009, and the second with Baylor in 2010.

         121.   In Spring 2020, Kurtz further retaliated against Piety regarding the

scheduling of Department faculty computer upgrades. Despite being the only full

professor in Philosophy and one of the few full professors in the Department, Piety

was the very last person in her Department to receive an upgrade.

         122.   In Spring of 2020, Kurtz further retaliated against Piety by repeatedly

ignoring requests by her and another female professor to discuss the effects of the

COVID-19 pandemic on women in higher education, and in the Department in

particular, before the Department members continued their discussions on issues such

as setting the criteria for evaluating teaching effectiveness. It is well documented that

COVID-19 has disproportionately negatively affected female faculty. See, e.g., Ruomeng

Cui, Hao Ding, & Feng Zhu, MANUFACTURING & SERVICE OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT 24,

no. 2 (March-April 2022); 707-726, “Gender Inequality in Research Productivity During

the COVID-19 Pandemic,” (last accessed May 5, 2022); Colleen Flaherty, “No Room of

One’s Own: Early journal submission data suggest COVID-19 is tanking women’s

research productivity," INSIDE HIGHER EDUCATION, April 21, 2020 (last accessed May 5,

2022).

         123.   Kurtz's ignoring these issues was not only retaliation against Piety but

also evinced his hostility toward women, women in academia, and his disregard for

the documented gender inequality affecting female professors as a result of the


                                       Page 29 of 54
COVID-19 pandemic.

       124.   On May 26, 2020, Catudal retaliated against Piety by disparaging her

teaching in an email to all the philosophy faculty. The university had shifted all

teaching for the spring 2020 term online in response to the pandemic. Catudal

disparaged the quality of the instruction in the online philosophy courses. He said that

the “so-called ‘instruction’” that students were receiving “would make you sick.” He

continued: "That goes for those fortunate among us who already had courses ready to

go because they had previously taught online. In fact, a few of the complaints I have

heard from students are specifically about such courses.”

       125.   Piety, though unnamed, was obviously Catudal's target. That is because

she was the only instructor who had announced at the philosophy program meeting at

the beginning of that term that she was “fortunate” because, for the upcoming term,

she "already had a course ready to go," because she had previously taught it online.

       126.   On August 24, 2020, Piety filed an additional complaint with OED

concerning the retaliation.

       127.   On or about September 2020, Amato retaliated against Piety by

deliberately scheduling, over her requests not to, an event for philosophy majors and

students interested in becoming philosophy majors for a time when he knew Piety was

generally unavailable.

       128.   When Piety informed Kurtz about this retaliation and discrimination by


                                      Page 30 of 54
Amato, she said that she merely wanted her schedule to be considered so that students

would benefit from meeting the highest number of faculty possible, including the

Program's only full professor.

      129.    Kurtz did not support Piety. He twisted her complaint to accuse her, in

an email dated September 11, 2020, of making “demands for preferential treatment on

the basis of rank,” and describing her behavior as “improper and uncollegial at the

very best.”

      130.    However, it was obvious that Piety had not requested "preferential

treatment." She had merely requested a courtesy generally extended to faculty but

which Amato had repeatedly failed to extend to her.

      131.    The event ended up being rescheduled for reasons that had nothing to do

with Piety’s concerns. Piety was able to attend the event on the new date. Except for

Amato, Piety was the only member of the philosophy faculty who attended.

      132.    On or about September 17, 2020, Kurtz further retaliated against Piety.

During a department meeting held via Zoom, Catudal, then the Chair of the

Department bylaws committee, insisted there should be a full Professor on the bylaws

committee, as there was not one. Piety volunteered to serve, via the chat function.

Kurtz responded, via chat, "You got it."

      133.    The next day, however, Kurtz emailed all the full professors in the

Department and asked that one of them please volunteer to serve on the bylaws


                                     Page 31 of 54
committee.

      134.   Piety was surprised and wrote an email to Kurtz reminding him that she

had volunteered during the meeting and that he had said she could serve on the

committee. Kurtz responded that he regretted having made the hasty appointment,

that he felt he should give all the full professors in the department an opportunity to

volunteer.

      135.   Piety responded that all the full professors had been present at the

department meeting and hence already had a chance to volunteer.

      136.   Kurtz ignored this email. Several days later, Kurtz emailed the

Department informing everyone that a full professor had volunteered to serve on the

committee, and that he was appointing her.

      137.   The full professor Kurtz appointed was Doreen Saar, a female, who was

one of the people against whom Piety had filed her OED complaint for sex

discrimination on May 5, 2020. Saar is known in the Department to have been the

subject of at least one other complaint for perpetrating sex discrimination against

another female professor.

      138.   Kurtz appointed Saar to retaliate against Piety for the complaints she had

made against him and Saar.

      139.   Kurtz's refusal to appoint Piety to the bylaws committee threatened to

harm her annual review for service to the Department and University, as such


                                      Page 32 of 54
committee work counts in these reviews.

       140.   Kurtz further retaliated against Piety. On or about October 20, 2020, he

falsified Piety's annual review.

       141.   Kurtz did so by deliberately omitting in his report that Piety had taught

an entirely new course, PHIL 385: Philosophy of Law, despite that the review process

provides special consideration to faculty who teach new courses. Kurtz also

deliberately omitted that Piety achieved outstanding student reviews for this new

course. (Achieving strong student reviews for a new course is rarer than for a course

the professor has already taught and refined.)

       142.   Kurtz also did so by deliberately omitting in his report that Piety is a

member of the Kierkegaard, Religion, and Culture Advisory Board of the American

Academy of Religion, despite that this is a significant service to the profession.

       143.   Kurtz obviously went out of his way to perpetrate these misleading

omissions, because the information he omitted had been included by Piety in the form

she had to fill out and send to Kurtz so that he could write the annual review. Also,

such accomplishments were routinely included in the official annual reviews of Piety

in previous years.

       144.   Kurtz also falsified the review by characterizing Piety's scholarship for

the past year. He indicated that Piety had merely met the standard when in fact Piety

had exceeded it, by publishing, in just one year, the total number of articles she is


                                      Page 33 of 54
required to publish over a three-year period. Scholarship is the main criterion for

reviewing tenure-line faculty, also known as “research faculty,” as opposed to

“teaching faculty.” So Kurtz emphasized Piety's teaching evaluations, which he

(accurately) described as “well above average."

       145.   Kurtz's refusal to give Piety an accurate rating for scholarship and

emphasize her teaching instead was part of his effort to harm her reputation with the

upper-level administrators, to reduce the likelihood of her receiving an appropriate

merit pay increase, and to increase the likelihood that if she could not keep up her high

level of scholarly productivity, she might be required to take on extra teaching duties.

The Department has made such increase in teaching duties the "remedy" for dealing

with research faculty who are not sufficiently active as scholars to merit the light

teaching load that goes with the research (tenure-line) positions.

       146.   On October 21, 2020, OED investigator Zoe Reilly emailed Piety saying

that she understood Piety was planning to file a complaint of retaliation. Surprised,

Piety responded the next day, October 22, 2020, by forwarding her August 24, 2020

email with the retaliation complaint attached. (At various times after that, through the

Spring of 2021, Piety emailed OED to add various incidents of retaliation to that

complaint.)

       147.   Catudal and Kurtz further retaliated against Piety. On or about

November 2020, Piety announced that she would give a presentation to junior faculty


                                      Page 34 of 54
about the tenure and promotion process via Zoom on November 12. Piety had recently

been through the process of promotion to full professor. One reason Piety decided to

give the talk was to assuage concerns of associate professors considering applying for

promotion to full professor after Associate Professor Catudal had claimed that there

were “issues with the process of promotion to full professor.”

       148.   Before Piety gave the talk, Catudal engaged in further retaliation against

her by emailing all tenure-line faculty who were not yet full professors and suggesting

that Piety's talk would, somehow, violate the Provost's policy that the tenure and

promotion process for any individual professor be kept confidential.

       149.   In response, Piety obtained clearance from the University's Office of

General Counsel to give the talk.

       150.   Catudal attended the talk and heckled Piety throughout.

       151.   Kurtz did not attend the talk, nor did he ever thank Piety for giving it.

Instead, he ordered her to provide him with access so that he could view a recording of

it. His tone and lack of approval indicated that he wanted to view the recording to try

to ferret out some violation of the Provost's confidentiality policy by Piety so that he

could subject Piety to discipline.

       152.   On or about June 23, 2021, Kurtz continued to retaliate against Piety.

When another faculty member, Rogelio Miñana, indicated he wanted to move the

Religious Studies Program from Global Studies to another department, Kurtz turned


                                      Page 35 of 54
down the opportunity to house this program in the Department of English and

Philosophy.

      153.    Including this program in Drexel's Philosophy Program would be the

most natural home for it, given how closely it is related to philosophy and given that

there are numerous Departments of Religion and Philosophy at institutions of higher

education across the country.

      154.    In addition, Piety, who teaches in the Religious Studies program and also

is one of its founding members, had told Kurtz that she supported such a move.

      155.    Moving the Religious Studies Program to the Department of English and

Philosophy would have enhanced Piety’s status in both the Department and the

Program. Kurtz disregarded the obvious fact that such a move would have benefitted

the Department more generally by expanding its reach, and the array of disciplines it

encompassed.

      156.    Kurtz retaliated again by emailing Piety on or about June 23, 2021,

informing her that he wanted to meet with her and a representative from HR to

address some discussions among the curriculum committee that Piety had copied him

on, along with an appeal to him to intervene to stop the mobbing of her by the other

members of the committee. The mobbing occurred after Piety told the committee that it

was refusing to follow Drexel College of Arts and Sciences policy in creating a new

course.


                                     Page 36 of 54
       157.   Piety suspected this meeting was more retaliation and asked HR if her

attorney could attend. HR denied Piety's request.

       158.   HR told Piety she could have a representative from the OED attend. Piety

made such request to OED and also reported to OED that Kurtz was planning to

retaliate against her.

       159.   During the meeting with OED and HR, which was held on June 30, 2021,

Kurtz twisted Piety's complaint around and accused her of being "uncivil" to the

committee members.

       160.   Kurtz also demanded that Piety not make a complaint to OED against

himself and the members of the committee, about whom Piety had said she would

complain formally for their bullying and harassment of her - part of the retaliation

against her - regarding her refusing to go along with flouting Drexel policy regarding

the requirements for creating a new course.

       161.   During this Zoom meeting, Kurtz also threatened Piety, using his

supervisory authority as Department Head to demand that she retract the complaint

she had made to OED against him.

       162.   Piety did file a complaint against committee members. And she did not

withdraw her complaints against Kurtz.

       163.   On or about October 25, 2021, Kurtz retaliated against Piety again, by

encouraging her to seek a Drexel research "co-op" where a student could gain work


                                     Page 37 of 54
experience through Drexel's renowned innovative experiential and cooperative

learning program.

      164.    Piety did the footwork of creating the coop and selecting a student.

      165.    On or about December 21, 2021, Piety told Kurtz the good news that she

had created a co-op and found a student who would benefit from working in it. Kurtz

refused, however, to provide the matching funds ordinarily provided by the recipient’s

department.

      166.    Kurtz gave no reason for his refusal.

      167.    Ultimately, Piety obtained matching funds from the same Drexel center

that had awarded her the grant.

      168.    On or about March 7, 2022 Piety was the victim of yet more retaliatory

scheduling practices on the part of Amato and Kurtz when her popular course

“Judaism and Christianity: Two Religions or One?” which had originally been

scheduled to run during Drexel’s spring 2022 term, was prematurely cancelled due to

purported “low enrollment” three (3) full weeks before the start of the term.

      169.    Amato and Kurtz knew that Drexel students do not enroll in courses

until about two (2) weeks before the term starts and that many wait until one (1) week

before.

      170.    Amato and Kurtz knew that Piety’s course on Judaism and Christianity

was a popular course that had not suffered from low enrollment.


                                     Page 38 of 54
       171.   Moreover, the course should have been protected from cancellation

because it was taught pursuant to a generous grant Drexel had received from the

philanthropist Laurie Wagman for its development and maintenance, along with the

development and maintenance of several other courses that would form part of a new

“Interfaith Certificate Program.”

       172.   Amato and Kurtz canceled the course not only to force Piety to, once

again, scramble at the last minute to prepare to teach a course she had not planned to

teach, but also because they knew Piety had received the highest teaching evaluations

of her career so far for the course.

       173.   Kurtz and Amato assigned Piety to teach one of the overflow sections of

an introductory course. They did so knowing that the reassignment would likely

guarantee Piety she would receive a lower aggregate teaching effectiveness score for

her upcoming annual review.



         The Office of Equality and Diversity "Investigation" of Piety's Complaints
                         Conclude There Was "No Discrimination"

       174.   After an "investigation" of Piety's original complaint from May 2020, the

OED announced, on or about March 1, 2021, that it did not find any illegal

discrimination in the Department.

       175.   Piety appealed the OED's decision on or about March 15, 2021.

       176.   Drexel still has rendered no decision on this appeal and indeed has not


                                       Page 39 of 54
responded to Piety’s repeated requests for updates.

       177.   On April 22, 2022, the OED informed Piety that its investigation of her

complaint for retaliation, which Piety originally filed on or about August 24, 2020, had

resulted in a finding of "no discrimination." (This is the complaint that Piety had to

send the OED again on October 22, 2020 when OED's Zoe Reilly claimed not to have

received it.) Piety is appealing.

       178.   To date, OED has ignored the complaint Piety made against the other

members of the curriculum committee for their bullying and harassment of her for her

insistence that they respect Drexel policy concerning the addition of new courses to the

permanent curriculum. (When Piety inquired about the progress on the investigation

of this complaint in an email to Apicella dated May 4, 2022, Apicella replied in an

email dated May 6, 2022 that this official complaint by Piety may have “inadvertently”

“slipped through the cracks.”)

       179.   OED's "investigations" of reports of discrimination are chimerical,

designed to give Drexel female members the illusion that Drexel's OED will take their

complaints of illegal discrimination seriously and will investigate them according to

best practices; that Drexel will not tolerate any retaliation against these women for

making a complaint; that Drexel will deal with offenders appropriately; and that

Drexel will ameliorate the discrimination and improve the overall atmosphere for

women faculty.


                                      Page 40 of 54
       180.   However, OED appears to avoid, deliberately, making any investigative

finding that there was illegal discrimination against a female faculty member. Instead,

OED generally says there was no illegal discrimination -- there was merely "incivility."

Then, OED turns the matter over to HR. OED in fact responded in this way to the

above-described 2015 complaint a female faculty made about the Department of

English & Philosophy, described above.



          The OED Deliberately Does Not Follow Investigative Best Practices and
                    Distorts Facts to Avoid Finding Discrimination

       181.   OED investigators deliberately refuse to follow investigative best

practices. The OED "investigates" matters by "interviewing" witnesses and writing a

report. However, the OED investigators refuse to record any of the interviews accurately

either by audio, video, or by having a court reporter/stenographer present, claiming

that the OED has a "policy" to not record interviews. (OED refused to record its

interviews of Piety, even when Piety requested such recording.)

       182.   Rather, the OED investigators claim to rely on their "notes" and

"memories" of the interviews when, months after such interviews, the investigators sit

down to write their reports. Such intellectual effort to remember, and to reconstruct

and interpret "notes," however, is wholly unnecessary. Recording an interview merely

requires pressing a few buttons on a smartphone or, in remote interviews, clicking a

button on Zoom.


                                      Page 41 of 54
          183.    Recording an interview is a best practice for investigators who purport to

    make factual findings, as OED does, given that even a diligent investigator acting in

    good faith might miss something that was said, or how it was said, or misinterpret or

    mishear a statement. In addition, the relevance of a particular bit of information might

    not be obvious or knowable at one point in an investigation. But when the investigator

    learns more information, the relevance of this earlier information might become

    evident. If the earlier information was not written down, or not written down

    accurately, or not remembered by an investigator because it seemed irrelevant at the

    time, it may be lost, which diminishes the accuracy of the investigation.4

          184.    As a result of OED's refusal to follow this best practice, the OED

    investigators guards their ability to pick and choose among statements by witnesses,

    use statements tendentiously, or invent statements out of whole cloth.

          185.    Even when the OED investigator allows a witness to "review" a "draft"

    report of an investigation, the OED investigator retains the power and ability to ignore

    any corrections, make "credibility determinations,” ignore available empirical and

    documentary evidence, and lie about what was said and/or invent facts and

    statements.

          186.    The OED, when it allows a faculty member to review a draft report,




4
 For this reason, of course, lawyers routinely read the transcripts and/or review videos of prior
depositions in a case to prepare for upcoming depositions.
                                          Page 42 of 54
prohibits any copying of such report. After OED "investigated" Piety's report of

discrimination in 2020, Piety received an email from the OED with a link that allowed

her to view the OED's draft report on their investigation. The report contained

testimony from witnesses that Piety knew supported her complaint. She was unable to

print out the report, however, and OED ignored her repeated email requests for

instructions on how to do so.

       187.   To ensure an accurate record of the investigation, Piety made a copy of

the report for herself by taking screen shots of each of its 63 pages. She included

extended quotations from this draft report in her appeal of the OED's finding of "no

discrimination."

       188.   When on March 18, 2022 Piety received an email with a link to the draft

of the report of OED's investigation of a subsequent complaint of retaliation that she

made to the OED on August 24, 2020 (and had to send OED again on October 22, 2020),

the OED, this time, included a warning at the top of the screen informing her that she

did not have permission to download or print out the report.

       189.   The OED investigatory reports are the products of policies and practices

that are biased against female faculty. The reports are unreliable and tendentious and

protective of Drexel's administrators, and of Drexel as an institution. The reports and

the biased policies and practices used to create them are deployed to gaslight female

faculty, to lull them into a belief that their complaints are being taken seriously while


                                      Page 43 of 54
the clock runs out on the statute of limitations for seeking recourse outside of Drexel

(such as by reporting the discrimination to the EEOC). The reports and the biased

policies and practices used to create them are deployed to keep complaints

"confidential." All of these OED practices serve to help deter lawsuits against Drexel

that would discredit Drexel's claims that Drexel opposes discrimination against female

faculty.

         190.   For example, Piety discovered, when reviewing the "draft" OED report of

OED's investigation of her original May 5, 2020 complaint, that the OED "investigator"

had omitted or misinterpreted many of her allegations and engaged in "fact-finding"

that defied logic, common sense, and the documentary evidence.

         191.   For example, the OED investigation report credited Catudal's obviously

dishonest claims that he had continued to call Piety "Foley" because she had asked

colleagues to do so and published scholarly work under the name "Foley." All the OED

investigator had to do was Google, or follow up with Piety, to discredit Catudal's

claim.

         192.   For example, the OED investigation report twisted the facts and

contrived to follow the lead of Defendant Kurtz, Dean Bouchard, Vice Provost Horvath

to portray Dr. Piety as a prima donna who was intemperately demanding that she, and

only she, "owned" a "monopoly" on courses about Kierkegaard.

         193.   For example, Drexel officials have done nothing to remedy Kurtz and


                                      Page 44 of 54
Amato's disproportionate treatment of female faculty in course teaching assignments

       194.    For example, the OED typically takes many months to investigate a

complaint hence running down the clock on the statute of limitations for a lawsuit.

Regarding Piety's initial complaint to OED, filed in May 2020, there was no decision by

OED until on or about March 1, 2021. Regarding Piety's complaint for retaliation first

filed on or about August 24, 2020, and which Piety sent again on October 22, 2020,

there was no decision until on or about April 22, 2022. Regarding Piety's complaint for

discrimination and harassment and bullying by some members of the curriculum

committee, which Piety filed on or about August 16, 2021, there has been no action

whatsoever -- on May 6, 2022, Apicella told Piety it “inadvertently” “slipped through

the cracks.”

       195.    Had Piety not known to preserve her right to sue by filing a complaint

with the EEOC, Drexel’s OED would have deprived her of her right to sue as a direct

result of its policies and procedures.

       196.    Drexel has failed to remedy the Department of English and Philosophy's

hostile work environment against female faculty, and unequal opportunities for

advancement, despite that women make up about fifty percent of the Department's

faculty.




                                         Page 45 of 54
        Piety Requests Information the Office of Equality and Diversity is Required
                               to Maintain Under Title IX"

       197.   On or about March 9, 2021, Dr. Piety asked the head of OED, Paul

Apicella, Esq., for data from the OED regarding how many female faculty filed

complaints based on sex discrimination, and how many of those complaints ever

resulted in a finding of discrimination.

       198.   Dr. Piety did so under the belief that such data is required to be kept by

OED under applicable federal law such as Title IX.

       199.   Apicella responded the following day, March 9, 2021, saying he could not

provide a “reliable answer,” but that, once he had one, he would be happy to let her

know. However, to date, he has not provided any of these data, despite that Piety has

renewed her request for it several times. Apicella's most recent response was May 6,

2022 in which he repeated that he was still unable to provide the information.

                                           Unequal Pay

       200.   Along with other female faculty members, Dr. Piety has long suffered

discrimination by the University, the Department, and the Program.

       201.   On or about 2014, female faculty members received pay increases. On

information and belief, this increase prompted by a complaint that female faculty were

being paid less than male faculty for the same work.

       202.   Despite this pay increase, however, Drexel continues to pay women

faculty, and in particular female full professors, significantly less than their male
                                      Page 46 of 54
counterparts, according to a recent survey by the American Association of University

Professors.

       203.   Piety is paid less than lower-ranking male philosophy professors

(associate professors) who are doing substantially the same work, both in degree and

kind, including teaching, research, writing, and committee work. Piety has met or

exceeded the Department standards in all categories (teaching, scholarship, and

service) in all of her annual reviews..

       204.   On or about March 21, 2022, Piety learned that Drexel pays Associate

Professor Nathan Hanna, who arrived at Drexel after Piety and is lower ranking than

Piety, a salary that is higher than what Drexel pays Piety.

       205.   Discovery will show that Drexel similarly pays Associate Professor

Andrew Smith significantly more than it pays Piety.

       206.   On or about March 21, 2022, Piety learned that Drexel is paying a male

tenured full professor in a different but similar department, with similar

accomplishments to hers, approximately fifty percent more than Drexel pays Piety.

       207.   Discovery will show that Drexel is paying other male faculty of similar,

and even lesser, rank and scholarly achievement than Piety and who are doing the

same job and same work as Piety significantly more money that Drexel pays Piety.

       208.   Such discrepancy is the result of intentional sex discrimination, a hostile

work environment, and retaliation against Piety for complaining of such


                                          Page 47 of 54
discrimination.

                                      Pattern and Practice

       209.   Along with other female faculty, Piety has long suffered discrimination in

the Department of English and Philosophy from colleagues, department heads

including Defendant Kurtz, and program directors.

       210.   The actions of Defendants are systematic and ongoing, representing a

pattern and practice of illegal discrimination and retaliation against Piety.

       211.   At all relevant times, Defendants knew or should have known of such

pattern and practice.

       212.   Piety brings this action to remedy past and ongoing discrimination and

retaliation by Defendants.




                                  Hostile Work Environment

       213.   The aforementioned conduct by Defendants has created a hostile work

environment for Piety and indeed other women in the Department of English and

Philosophy, and, upon information and belief, in departments throughout Drexel.

       214.   At all relevant times, Defendants knew or should have known of the severe

and pervasive conduct by Drexel employees that has created this hostile work

environment for female faculty and has failed to remedy it.




                                      Page 48 of 54
                           Piety Was Injured by Defendants' Conduct

       215.   As a direct and proximate result of the above-described conduct of

Defendants, Piety has suffered damages including, monetary loss, wage loss, loss of

opportunities for advancement, medical expenses, loss of self-esteem, embarrassment,

humiliation, and emotional distress.




                                            COUNT I
                       Title VII - Hostile Work Environment, Retaliation
                                    Piety v. Drexel University

       216.   Plaintiff repeats and incorporates by reference herein the preceding

paragraphs of this complaint.

       217.   The above-described conduct by Defendant Drexel has created, fostered,

and fueled a hostile workplace in violation of Title VII.

       218.    The above-described conduct by Defendant Drexel constitutes retaliation

against Piety in violation of Title VII.

       219.   Defendant Drexel’s actions and failures to act were and are deliberate and

willful and were intended to harm Piety based on her sex, and to retaliate against Piety

for her protected activity under Title VII.

       220.   Defendant Drexel has acted in the absence of good faith and reasonable

grounds. Its actions and were and are outrageous, egregious, malicious, intentional,

willful, wanton, and in reckless disregard of Piety's rights.


                                           Page 49 of 54
                                         COUNT II
                        PHRA - Hostile Work Environment, Retaliation
                            Piety v. Drexel University and Kurtz

       221.   Plaintiff repeats and incorporates by reference herein the preceding

paragraphs of this complaint.

       222.   The above-described conduct by Defendants have created, fostered, and

fueled a hostile workplace in violation of the PHRA.

       223.   The above-described conduct by Defendants constitutes retaliation against

Piety in violation of the PHRA.

       224.   Defendant Kurtz, a supervisor of Piety, has aided and abetted this

discrimination, hostility, and retaliation.

       225.   Defendants' actions and failures to act were and are deliberate and willful

and intended to harm Piety based on her sex, and to retaliate against Piety for her

protected activity under the PHRA.

       226.   Defendants have acted in the absence of good faith and reasonable

grounds. Its actions and were and are outrageous, egregious, malicious, intentional,

willful, wanton, and in reckless disregard of Piety's rights.

                                           COUNT III
                       Title IX - Hostile Work Environment, Retaliation
                                   Piety v. Drexel University

       227.   Plaintiff repeats and incorporates by reference herein the preceding

paragraphs of this complaint.
                                       Page 50 of 54
       228.    The above-described conduct by Defendant Drexel have created, fostered,

and fueled a hostile workplace in violation of Title IX.

       229.    The above-described conduct by Defendant Drexel constitutes retaliation

against Piety in violation of Title IX.

       230.    Defendant Drexel's actions and failures to act were and are deliberate and

willful and intended to harm Piety based on her sex, and to retaliate against Piety for

her protected activity under the Title IX.

       231.    Defendant Drexel has been deliberately indifferent to Piety's rights and has

acted in the absence of good faith and reasonable grounds. Its actions were and are

outrageous, egregious, malicious, intentional, willful, wanton, and in reckless disregard

of Piety's rights.

                                           COUNT IV
                                          Equal Pay Act
                                    Piety v. Drexel University

       232.    Plaintiff repeats and incorporates by reference herein the preceding

paragraphs of this complaint.

       233.    At all relevant times, Defendant Drexel has paid Piety less than it pays

male professors who are doing the same or similar work, including male professors who

are junior to Piety in rank with less experience.

       234.    Defendant Drexel's above-described actions were and are intentional and

constitute a willful violation of the Equal Pay Act.


                                          Page 51 of 54
                                          COUNT IV
                                      Breach of Contract
                                   Piety v. Drexel University

       235.    Plaintiff repeats and incorporates by reference herein the preceding

paragraphs of this complaint.

       236.    At all relevant times, a contractual relationship has existed between

Plaintiff Piety and Defendant Drexel through the various faculty handbook policies and

anti-discrimination policies, including Drexel's policies to reasonably and promptly

investigate and remediate sex discrimination, hostile workplace, retaliation, and

unequal pay.

       237.    As a direct result of Drexel's numerous breaches desrcibed above, Piety

has sustained significant damages, including loss of income and opportunity and

various expenses.

       238.    Piety is entitled to recover damages for Drexel's breach of its contractual

obligations and duties.


                                 PRAYER FOR RELIEF


      107. Plaintiff repeats and incorporates by reference herein the preceding

paragraphs of this complaint.


       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court enter judgment in

       her favor and against the Defendants:

                                      Page 52 of 54
a. Declaring that the acts and practices complained of herein are in violation of

Title VII, the PHRA, Title IX, the Equal Pay Act, and constitute breach of contract

by Drexel;

b. Enjoining and restraining permanently the acts and practices complained of

herein;

c. Ordering appropriate training for Defendants concerning policies and practices

and related dispute resolution;

d. Ordering that Defendants address the related workplace bullying and provide

anti-workplace bullying training to employees, and especially employees in the

Department of English and Philosophy;

e. Awarding compensatory damages to Plaintiff to make Plaintiff whole for all

past and future lost earnings, benefits, earnings capacity, interest, and other

financial losses which Plaintiff has suffered and will continue to suffer as a result

of Defendants’ conduct;

f. Awarding liquidated damages to Plaintiff;

g. Awarding punitive damages to Plaintiff;

h. Awarding attorneys’ fees and costs to Plaintiff;

i. Molding any verdict/award in Plaintiff's favor to provide Plaintiff the maximum

financial recovery allowed by applicable damage caps;

and


                               Page 53 of 54
        i. Any and all other relief deemed just and proper.

                                     JURY DEMAND

Plaintiff hereby demands trial by jury as to all issues so triable.

                                           BRIAN J. FOLEY, ATTORNEY AT LAW



                                           BY:_____________________________________
                                              BRIAN J. FOLEY, ESQUIRE
                                              Attorney for Plaintiff
Date: May 8, 2022




                                        Page 54 of 54
