Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/62639870/1/mendez-ramirez-v-bioplast-manufacturing-llc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in MENDEZ RAMIREZ v. BIOPLAST MANUFACTURING, LLC (E.D. Pa., 2:22-cv-00400) – CourtListener.com

        Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 1 of 22




                   IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


                                                 )
ADELSO MENDEZ RAMIREZ and                        )
ELIDA ESPERANZA MENENDEZ                         )
SANTIAGO                                         )
                                                 )
              Plaintiffs                         )           CIVIL ACTION NO.______________
                                                 )
   v.

BIOPLAST MANUFACTURING, LLC and
GENESIS BIOTECHNOLOGY GROUP
                                                 )

              Defendants


                                       COMPLAINT

        1.   Plaintiffs Adelso Mendez Ramirez (“Adelso Mendez”) and Elida Esperanza

Menendez Santiago (“Elida Menendez”) bring this action against Defendants Bioplast

Manufacturing, LLC (“Bioplast”) and Genesis Biotechnology Group (“Genesis”).

        2.   Over the course of about one year, during which Plaintiffs were employed by

Defendants, Plaintiffs were subjected to a range of unrelenting harassment, intimidation, and

unfavorable treatment because of their race, color, and/or national origin. The mistreatment

included but was not limited to: racial slurs and other verbal abuse; unfavorable work

assignments that were both more difficult and more degrading than those given to other

workers; threats of physical violence; and additional retaliatory conduct following complaints

Plaintiffs made to Defendants’ human resources department.

                                  NATURE OF ACTION

        3.   This employment action seeks redress for intentional race, color, and/or national

origin discrimination in violation of (1) Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended
       Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 2 of 22




by the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. § 2000(e) et seq. (“Title VII”); (2) the Civil Rights

Act of 1866 as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 1981 (“Section 1981”); and (3) the Pennsylvania Human

Relations Act, 43 P.S. §§ 951-963 (“PHRA”).

                                 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

       4.    This Court has federal question jurisdiction over the subject matter of Plaintiffs’

claims under Title VII and Section 1981 pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331.

       5.    This Court has supplemental jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1367 over Plaintiffs’

Pennsylvania state law claims alleged herein because those claims derive from a common

nucleus of operative facts as the federal claims.

       6.    Plaintiffs have fulfilled all jurisdictional prerequisites to the institution of this suit.

                 a. On January 29, 2020, Plaintiffs timely filed Charges of Discrimination

                     with the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                     (“EEOC”), which were dual-filed with the Pennsylvania Human Relations

                     Commission (“PHRC”).

                 b. The EEOC issued Notices of Right to Sue on January 26, 2022, and

                     Plaintiffs have filed this action within ninety (90) days thereafter. Exhibits

                     A, B.

                 c. The PHRC Charges of Discrimination have remained open for more than

                     one year.

       7.    Venue in this Court is appropriate pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b). Defendants

committed the unlawful acts alleged in this complaint within the Eastern District of

Pennsylvania.
        Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 3 of 22




                                            PARTIES

Plaintiffs

         8.     Plaintiff Adelso Mendez is a brown-skinned Hispanic man of Guatemalan

 national origin. He is the brother-in-law of Plaintiff Elida Menendez.

         9.     Plaintiff Elida Menendez is a brown-skinned Hispanic woman of Guatemalan

 national origin. She is the sister-in-law of Plaintiff Adelso Mendez.

Defendants

         10.   Defendant Bioplast is a manufacturer of plastic components for medical, clinical,

 and biotechnology purposes. Defendant Bioplast employs more than 15 employees at its

 principal place of business, located at 128 Wharton Road, Bristol, Pennsylvania 19007.

         11.   Defendant Bioplast issued Plaintiffs’ paychecks, assigned and supervised

 Plaintiffs’ day-to-day work, had the ability to hire and fire Plaintiffs, and made disciplinary

 decisions relating to Plaintiffs.

         12.   Defendant Genesis is a consortium of vertically integrated companies that

 develop, manufacture and distribute biotechnology-based products. Defendant Bioplast is a

 member company of Defendant Genesis.

         13.   Defendant Genesis had the ability to hire and fire Plaintiffs and made disciplinary

 decisions relating to Plaintiffs.

                                     STATEMENT OF FACTS

         14.   Plaintiff Elida Menendez began working at Defendant Bioplast’s manufacturing

 plant in Bristol, Pennsylvania, in approximately December 2016.

         15.   Plaintiff Adelso Mendez began working at Defendant Bioplast’s manufacturing

 plant in Bristol, Pennsylvania, in approximately March 2017.
                                                 3
        Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 4 of 22




        16.    Plaintiffs’ duties included sorting, inspecting, and packaging plastic components

 produced by injection molding machines.

        17.    Beginning in early 2018, Defendants’ employees Jeffrey Perkins (“Perkins”) and

 Alfonso Anderson (“Anderson”) exercised the authority to direct, control, and/or supervise

 Plaintiffs’ work.

        18.    Throughout the time Perkins and Anderson supervised Plaintiffs, Perkins and

 Anderson mistreated and harassed Plaintiffs because of their race, color, and/or national origin.

        19.    Perkins and Anderson subjected Plaintiffs to discriminatory treatment including

 racial slurs and other verbal abuse; unfavorable work assignments; threats of physical violence;

 and a range of retaliatory conduct following complaints Plaintiffs made to Defendants’ human

 resources department about the discriminatory treatment.

Verbal Abuse

        20.    On a daily or weekly basis, Perkins and Anderson insulted and demeaned

 Plaintiffs because of their race, color and/or national origin.

        21.    Perkins and Anderson made statements to Plaintiffs such as:

                     a. “F*cking Hispanics are no good;”

                     b. “F*cking Hispanics, go back to where you came from;” and

                     c. “F*cking Hispanics, always trying to use the bathroom.”

        22.    Perkins and Anderson regularly told Plaintiffs they would call Immigration

 authorities on them.

        23.    On one occasion, Plaintiff Elida Menendez became sick at work. Anderson

 responded by calling Plaintiffs “sick Hispanics” and asking why Plaintiffs worked at

 Defendant Bioplast at all.
                                                 4
        Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 5 of 22




        24.   On numerous occasions, Perkins and Anderson told Plaintiff Adelso Mendez they

 didn’t like “F*cking Hispanics” working there and they would do everything they could to

 make it impossible for him to continue working at Bioplast.

Discriminatory Work Assignments

        25.    Perkins and Anderson subjected Plaintiffs to more difficult work assignments

 because of their race, color, and/or national origin. They often assigned Plaintiffs to work

 alone, without rotation, on the hardest machines that required standing, while non-brown

 skinned, non-Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan employees worked in pairs and rotated

 machines.

        26.   Perkins and Anderson required Plaintiffs to operate, on their own, machines that

 typically require two people to operate them.

                  a. Many of the machines at Defendant Bioplast are typically operated by two

                      workers at once.

                  b. Perkins and Anderson typically assigned non-brown skinned, non-

                      Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers to operate those machines in

                      pairs.

                  c. Perkins and Anderson typically required Plaintiffs to operate those

                      machines alone.

        27.   Perkins and Anderson required Plaintiffs to operate the most difficult machines.

                  a. Certain machines are physically more strenuous to operate than others.

                  b. Perkins and Anderson assigned Plaintiffs to operate the most strenuous

                      machines with much higher frequency than they assigned non-brown



                                                 5
       Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 6 of 22




                     skinned, non-Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers to operate those

                     machines.

                 c. Certain machines can be operated while sitting; others must be operated

                     while standing.

                 d. Perkins and Anderson assigned Plaintiffs to the machines that require

                     standing with far higher frequency than they assigned non-brown skinned,

                     non-Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers to operate those machines.

                 e. On the infrequent occasions when Perkins and Anderson assigned

                     Plaintiffs to machines that could be operated while sitting, Perkins and

                     Anderson removed the chairs from the machines, so that Plaintiffs had to

                     stand while they worked.

                 f. Perkins and Anderson did not remove chairs when non-brown skinned,

                     non-Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers operated machines that

                     could be operated while sitting.

       28.   Perkins and Anderson refused to allow Plaintiffs to rotate through machines,

causing exhaustion and injuries to Plaintiffs.

                 a. Perkins and Anderson typically allowed non-brown skinned, non-

                     Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers to rotate machine assignments

                     over the course of a shift.

                 b. Perkins and Anderson refused to rotate machine assignments for Plaintiffs,

                     requiring Plaintiffs to work on the most strenuous machines for entire

                     shifts.



                                                   6
        Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 7 of 22




                  c. Perkins and Anderson also typically allowed non-brown skinned, non-

                      Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers to rotate through machines

                      from shift to shift—that is, workers were not required to operate the same

                      machine for multiple consecutive shifts.

                  d. Perkins and Anderson typically required Plaintiffs to work the same

                      strenuous machines for multiple consecutive shifts, causing exhaustion

                      and injuries to Plaintiffs.

        29.   Perkins and Anderson required Plaintiffs to work while non-brown skinned, non-

 Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers took paid breaks.

                  a. On a nightly or almost nightly basis, Perkins and Anderson allowed non-

                      brown-skinned, non-Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers to leave

                      their shift 20 to 25 minutes early.

                  b. For the final 20 to 25 minutes of the shift, Perkins and Anderson required

                      Plaintiffs complete final tasks to prepare the worksite for the following

                      shift.

                  c. Perkins and Anderson insulted and mocked Plaintiffs as they completed

                      these extra tasks.

Other Discriminatory Treatment

        30.   Perkins and Anderson treated Plaintiffs differently in other ways because of their

 race, color, and/or national origin. Some illustrative examples follow.

        31.   Perkins and Anderson destroyed and interfered with Plaintiffs’ workstations.

                  a. At Bioplast’s manufacturing plant, workers used nametag stickers to label

                      boxes made by each worker.
                                                    7
       Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 8 of 22




                 b. Multiple times per week, Perkins stepped on Plaintiffs’ nametags and used

                     his foot to tear them apart. Anderson also destroyed Plaintiffs’ nametags in

                     this manner, although he did so less frequently than Defendant Perkins.

                 c. Additionally, on a close to daily basis, Perkins and Anderson took the

                     plastic and other materials around Plaintiffs’ machines and threw those

                     materials on the floor.

                 d. Each time Perkins and Anderson threw Plainiffs’ materials on the floor,

                     Perkins and Anderson then required Plaintiffs to clean up the materials.

                 e. On one occasion, Plaintiff Adelso Mendez slipped and fell on a piece of

                     plastic thrown onto the floor by Perkins or Anderson. As a result, Plaintiff

                     Adelso Mendez’s back was injured.

        32.   Perkins and Anderson imposed discriminatory bathroom-use policies against

Plaintiffs.

                 a. Workers were required to ask permission to use the bathroom during a

                     shift.

                 b. Perkins and Anderson often ignored or denied reasonable requests by

                     Plaintiffs to use the bathroom.

                 c. Perkins and Anderson did not ignore or deny requests by non-brown-

                     skinned, non-Hispanic, and/or non-Guatemalan workers.

                 d. On at least one occasion, Perkins and Anderson denied Plaintiff Elida

                     Menendez use of the bathroom for almost six hours.

        33.   On one occasion, Plaintiff Adelso Mendez asked Perkins to pass him a water

bottle while he was operating a machine. In response, Perkins grabbed a nearly empty water
                                               8
        Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 9 of 22




 bottle, poured out the remaining water, pretended to urinate in the bottle, and offered it to

 Plaintiff Adelso Mendez. Perkins did not give Plaintiff Adelso Mendez the water he requested.

Plaintiffs Report Discrimination and Defendants Retaliate

        34.   In addition to complaining about their treatment directly to Perkins and Anderson,

 Plaintiffs also made repeated complaints to the plant manager and to Defendants’ human

 resources department (“HR”) about their discriminatory working conditions. Despite these

 complaints, Defendants did not ameliorate the discrimination to which Plaintiffs were

 subjected.

        35.   Following certain complaints to HR, meetings with representatives of HR and

 Plaintiffs were arranged. In those meetings, Plaintiffs described Perkins and Anderson’s verbal

 abuse, discriminatory machine assignments, extra duties, discriminatory break policies, threats

 of violence, and other mistreatment.

        36.   Plaintiff Adelso Mendez and Plaintiff Elida Menendez both stated to HR their

 belief that the discriminatory treatment was racially motivated.

        37.   Following Plaintiffs’ reports to HR, Perkins and Anderson escalated their

 discriminatory conduct against Plaintiffs including, but not limited to:

                  a. Anderson approached Plaintiff Adelso Mendez from behind with the sharp

                      metal rod and pretended to stab him while calling him a “F*cking

                      Hispanic.” Out of fear that Defendant Anderson would follow through

                      with the physical threat, from this moment onward Plaintiff Elida

                      Menendez watched Anderson carefully whenever he walked behind

                      Plaintiff Adelso Mendez so that she could warn Plaintiff Adelso Mendez if

                      he was in danger.
                                                 9
       Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 10 of 22




                  b. Anderson stated that he planned to cut Plaintiff Adelso Mendez’s neck

                      with a utility knife used at work to open boxes.

                  c. Anderson and Perkins required Plaintiff Adelso Mendez to continue

                      working past the end of his shift, and when he requested permission to

                      leave, Anderson replied to the effect of: “You can’t leave, you’re our

                      slave.”

                  d. Perkins enclosed Plaintiff Adelso Mendez away from all the other workers

                      in a hot, stuffy workspace by shutting a large door and blocking a

                      window. During this shift, Perkins monitored Plaintiff Adelso Mendez and

                      prohibited him from using the bathroom.

                  e. After one report, Perkins approached Plaintiff Adelso Mendez with a

                      raised fist.

Discharge

        38.   On August 2, 2019, representatives of Defendants’ HR department called Plaintiff

 Adelso Mendez to a meeting.

        39.   In that meeting, representatives of HR instructed Plaintiff Adelso Mendez to sign

 a written statement in English.

        40.   One of the HR representatives, who spoke limited Spanish, explained to Plaintiff

 Adelso Mendez that the statement required him to take responsibility for conduct in violation

 of company policy.

        41.   Plaintiff Adelso Mendez asked repeatedly for a Spanish translation of the

 statement. The HR representatives refused to provide a translation.



                                               10
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 11 of 22




       42.   Plaintiff Adelso Mendez also asked for a copy of the statement to take with him to

review. The HR representatives told him he could not take a copy of the statement.

       43.   Plaintiff Adelso Mendez refused to sign the statement and told the HR

representatives that he would not sign without being able to read a copy of it in a language he

could understand.

       44.   When Plaintiff Adelso Mendez refused to sign, the HR representatives required

him to give them his building access card.

       45.   Plaintiff Elida Menendez was also called to meet with Defendants’ HR

representatives on the same day.

       46.   The HR representatives also demanded Plaintiff Elida Menendez turn over her

building access card.

       47.   A Bioplast employee brought Plaintiff Adelso Mendez his belongings, which had

been stored in his locker.

       48.   An HR representative then escorted Plaintiff Adelso Mendez out of the building.

       49.   Plaintiff Elida Menendez was also instructed to leave the building.

       50.   Immediately following the meeting with HR, Plaintiff Adelso Mendez suffered

serious physical symptoms. He went to the hospital due to these symptoms.

       51.   Plaintiff Adelso Mendez experienced numbness in his fingers and lower legs,

sweating, a rapid heartbeat, difficulty breathing, throbbing in his head, and mental confusion.

       52.   Defendants sent Plaintiffs letters dated August 6, 2019, requiring Plaintiffs to

respond within three working days if they wished to “continue with their employment.”

Perceiving the discriminatory working conditions at Bioplast to be intolerable, Plaintiffs did

not return to work.
                                              11
       Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 12 of 22




         53.   Defendants completed termination paperwork for Plaintiffs on August 9, 2019.

Damages

         54.   Plaintiffs suffered and continue to suffer physical pain and emotional distress

 caused by Defendants’ discriminatory and retaliatory behavior.

         55.   Plaintiff Adelso Mendez injured his back after slipping on a piece of plastic

 thrown onto the floor by Perkins or Anderson. He still experiences pain from the incident.

         56.   Plaintiff Adelso Mendez was charged $894.73 for his hospital visit after being

 forced to leave Bioplast’s manufacturing facility on August 2, 2019.

         57.   Plaintiff Elida Menendez developed severe headaches and injuries to her back and

 arm caused by the discriminatory working conditions at Bioplast. She required hospital

 treatment for her headaches. Following her employment, she needed significant physical

 therapy to be able to raise her arm enough to brush her hair or touch her back. She continues to

 have pain from injuries to her back.

         58.   Plaintiffs suffered lost wages as a result of their constructive discharge.

                                           COUNT I
                                   Hostile Work Environment
                                            Title VII

         59.   Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this Complaint as

 if fully set forth herein.

         60.   Defendants Bioplast and Genesis engaged in unlawful discrimination on the basis

 of race, color, and/or national origin that altered the terms and conditions of their employment

 in violation of Section 703(a) of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, as amended. See 42 U.S.C.

 § 2000e-2(a).



                                                 12
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 13 of 22




       61.   The actions of Defendants Bioplast and Defendant Genesis created a hostile work

environment.

       62.   The conduct of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis’s agents and

employees was severe and/or pervasive, and would have been offensive to a reasonable person.

       63.   The conduct of Defendants’ agents was offensive to Plaintiffs.

       64.   Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis were aware of or should have been

aware of the discriminatory conduct to which Plaintiffs were subjected.

       65.   Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis failed to prevent and/or correct their

agents’ discriminatory and offensive conduct toward Plaintiffs.

       66.   The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis were intentional, and

were done with malice or reckless indifference to Plaintiffs’ federally protected rights.

       67.     As a direct result of Defendants’ unlawful conduct in violation of Title

VII, Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and irreparable harm causing them to sustain

physical injury, emotional distress, humiliation, loss of earnings, and like injuries.

                                         COUNT II
                                 Hostile Work Environment
                                      42 U.S.C. § 1981

       68.     Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this

Complaint as if fully set forth herein.

       69.     The actions of Defendants Bioplast and Genesis, through their agents and

employees, violated 42 U.S.C. §1981.

       70.     The actions of Defendants Bioplast and Genesis created a hostile work

environment.


                                               13
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 14 of 22




          71.   The conduct of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis’s agents and

employees was severe and/or pervasive, and would have been offensive to a reasonable person.

          72.   The conduct of Defendants’ agents was offensive to Plaintiffs.

          73.   Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis were aware of or should have been

aware of the discriminatory conduct to which Plaintiffs were subjected.

          74.   By failing to prevent and/or correct the conduct of Plaintiffs’ supervisors,

Defendants Bioplast and Genesis created a hostile work environment because of Plaintiffs’

race or color in violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1981.

          75.    The actions of Defendants were intentional, and were done with malice or

reckless indifference to Plaintiffs’ federally protected rights.

          76.    Defendants’ actions intentionally deprived Plaintiffs of the same rights as

are enjoyed by white citizens to the creation, performance, enjoyment, and all benefits and

privileges, of their contractual employment relationship with Defendants, in violation of 42

U.S.C. § 1981.

          77.    As a direct result of Defendants’ unlawful conduct in violation of 42

U.S.C. §1981, Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and irreparable harm causing them to

sustain physical injury, emotional distress, humiliation, a loss of earnings, and like

injury.

                                           COUNT III
                                   Hostile Work Environment
                                            PHRA

          78.    Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this

Complaint as if fully set forth herein.

                                                 14
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 15 of 22




       79.     Defendants Bioplast and Genesis engaged in unlawful discrimination on the

basis of race, color, and/or national origin that altered the terms and conditions of their

employment in violation of the PHRA.

       80.   The actions of Defendants Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their agents

and employees, created a hostile work environment and deprived Plaintiffs of equal

employment opportunities and otherwise affected their status as employees because of their

race, color, and/or national origin.

       81.   The conduct of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis’s agents and

employees was severe and/or pervasive, and would have been offensive to a reasonable person.

       82.   The conduct of Defendants’ agents was offensive to Plaintiffs.

       83.   Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis were aware of or should have been

aware of the discriminatory conduct to which Plaintiffs were subjected.

       84.   Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis failed to prevent and/or correct their

agents’ discriminatory and offensive conduct toward Plaintiffs.

       85.   The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis were intentional, and

were done with malice or reckless indifference to Plaintiffs’ federally protected rights.

       86.     As a direct result of Defendants’ unlawful conduct in violation of Title

VII, Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and irreparable harm causing them to sustain

physical injury, emotional distress, humiliation, loss of earnings, and like injuries.

                                        COUNT IV
                                    Disparate Treatment
                                         Title VII
                   (Constructive Discharge and Conditions of Employment)

       87.     Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this

                                               15
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 16 of 22




Complaint as if fully set forth herein.

        88.      Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their agents and

employees, engaged in unlawful discrimination on the basis of race, color, and/or national

origin in violation of Section 703(a) of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, as amended. See

42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a).

        89.      The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their

agents and employees, altered the conditions of Plaintiffs’ employment.

        90.      The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their

agents and employees, created a hostile work environment so intolerable that a reasonable

employee would feel forced to resign.

        91.      Plaintiffs found the work environment so intolerable that they had no choice

but to resign.

        92.      The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis were intentional,

and were done with malice or reckless indifference to Plaintiffs’ federally protected rights.

        93.      As a direct result of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis’s

unlawful conduct in violation of Title VII, Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and

irreparable harm causing them to sustain physical injury, emotional distress,

humiliation, loss of earnings, and like injuries.

                                          COUNT V
                                     Disparate Treatment
                                       42 U.S.C. § 1981
                    (Constructive Discharge and Conditions of Employment)

        94.      Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this


                                                16
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 17 of 22




Complaint as if fully set forth herein.

        95.      Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their agents and

employees, engaged in unlawful discrimination on the basis of race and color in violation

of 42 U.S.C. § 1981.

        96.      The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their

agents and employees, altered the conditions of Plaintiffs’ employment.

        97.      Defendants’ actions created a hostile work environment so intolerable that a

reasonable employee would feel forced to resign.

        98.      Plaintiffs found the work environment so intolerable that they had no choice

but to resign.

        99.      In doing so, Defendants intentionally deprived Plaintiffs of the same rights

as are enjoyed by white citizens to the creation, performance, enjoyment, and all benefits

and privileges, of their contractual employment relationship with Defendants, in violation

of 42 U.S.C. § 1981.

        100.     The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis were intentional,

and were done with malice or reckless indifference to Plaintiffs’ federally protected rights.

        101.     As a direct result of Defendants’ unlawful conduct in violation of 42

U.S.C. § 1981, Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and irreparable harm causing them

to sustain physical injury, emotional distress, humiliation, and loss of earnings.




                                                17
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 18 of 22




                                         COUNT VI
                                     Disparate Treatment
                                            PHRA
                    (Constructive Discharge and Conditions of Employment)

        102.     Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this

Complaint as if fully set forth herein.

        103.     Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their agents and

employees, engaged in unlawful discrimination on the basis of race, color, and/or national

origin in violation of the PHRA.

        104.     The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their

agents and employees, altered the conditions of Plaintiffs’ employment.

        105.     The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis created a hostile

work environment so intolerable that a reasonable employee would feel forced to resign.

        106.     Plaintiffs found the work environment so intolerable that they had no choice

but to resign.

        107.     The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis were intentional,

and were done with malice or reckless indifference to Plaintiffs’ rights.

        108.     As a direct result of Defendants’ unlawful conduct in violation of the

PHRA, Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and irreparable harm causing them to

sustain physical injury, emotional distress, humiliation, loss of earnings, and like injury.

                                           COUNT VII
                                           Retaliation
                                            Title VII

        109. Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this Complaint as

if fully set forth herein.
                                                18
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 19 of 22




        110. The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their agents

and employees, in retaliating against Plaintiffs for complaining of discrimination on the basis

of race, color, and/or national origin, constituted a violation of Section 703(a) of Title VII of

the Civil Rights Act, as amended. See 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a).

        111. Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis took materially adverse actions

against Plaintiffs after Plaintiffs engaged in protected activity.

        112. These actions included threats of physical violence, unfavorable work

assignments, formal discipline, and constructive discharge.

        113. The materially adverse actions taken by Defendants were serious enough to

discourage a reasonable worker from complaining about discrimination in the future.

        114. In the retaliatory actions alleged above, Defendants acted with malice or reckless

indifference to the rights of Plaintiffs.

        115.     As a direct result of Defendants’ unlawful retaliatory conduct in

violation of Title VII, Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and irreparable harm causing

them to sustain physical injury, emotional distress, humiliation, a loss of earnings, and

like injuries.

                                             COUNT VIII
                                               Retaliation
                                            42 U.S.C. § 1981

        116. Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this Complaint as

if fully set forth herein.

        117. The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their agents

and employees, in retaliating against Plaintiffs for complaining of discrimination on the basis

of race and color, constituted a violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1981.
                                                19
      Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 20 of 22




        118. Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis took materially adverse actions

against Plaintiffs after Plaintiffs engaged in protected activity.

        119. These actions included threats of physical violence, unfavorable work

assignments, formal discipline, and constructive discharge.

        120. The materially adverse actions taken by Defendants were serious enough to

discourage a reasonable worker from complaining about discrimination in the future.

        121. Defendants intentionally deprived Plaintiffs of the same rights as are enjoyed by

white citizens to the creation, performance, enjoyment, and all benefits and privileges, of their

contractual employment relationship with Defendants, in violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1981.

        122. In the discriminatory actions alleged above, Defendants acted with malice or

reckless indifference to the rights of Plaintiffs.

        123.    As a direct result of Defendants’ unlawful retaliatory conduct in

violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1981, Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and irreparable harm

causing them to sustain physical injury, emotional distress, humiliation, a loss of

earnings, and like injury.

                                           COUNT IX
                                           Retaliation
                                            PHRA

        124. Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the preceding paragraphs of this Complaint as

if fully set forth herein.

        125. The actions of Defendant Bioplast and Defendant Genesis, through their agents

and employees, in retaliating against Plaintiffs for complaining of discrimination on the basis

of race, color, and/or national origin, constituted a violation of the PHRA.


                                                 20
       Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 21 of 22




         126. Defendants took materially adverse actions against Plaintiffs after Plaintiffs

 engaged in protected activity.

         127. These actions included threats of physical violence, unfavorable work

 assignments, formal discipline, and constructive discharge.

         128. The materially adverse actions taken by Defendants were serious enough to

 discourage a reasonable worker from complaining about discrimination in the future.

         129. The actions of Defendants were intentional, and were done with malice or

 reckless indifference to Plaintiffs’ rights.

         130. As a direct result of Defendants’ unlawful conduct in violation of the PHRA,

 Plaintiffs have suffered permanent and irreparable harm causing them to sustain physical

 injury, emotional distress, humiliation, loss of earnings, and like injury.

                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, Plaintiffs respectfully request that this court:

       1.       Enter an order declaring Defendants discriminated against Plaintiffs based

on their race (Hispanic), color (brown), and national origin (Guatemalan), created a

hostile work environment, and retaliated against them for making complaints of

discrimination.

       2.       Award Plaintiffs actual, compensatory, statutory, and punitive damages.

       3.       Award Plaintiffs attorneys’ fees and court costs.

       4.       Award such other relief as this Court deems just and proper.




                                                21
       Case 2:22-cv-00400-GEKP Document 1 Filed 01/31/22 Page 22 of 22




Dated: January 31, 2022

                                   Respectfully submitted,

                                   JUSTICE AT WORK, INC.


                                   /s/ Samuel Datlof
                                   Samuel Datlof, Esq.
                                        PA ID#: 324716
                                        Email: sdatlof@justiceatworklegalaid.org

                                   Andrew Coval, Esq.
                                      PA ID#: 321487
                                      Email: acoval@justiceatworklegalaid.org

                                   Nancy Rimmer, Esq.
                                      PA ID#: 205563
                                      Email: nrimmer@justiceatworklegalaid.org

                                   Justice at Work
                                   990 Spring Garden Street, Suite 300
                                   Philadelphia, PA 19123
                                   (215) 733-0878

                                   Attorneys for Plaintiff




                                     22
