Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/62610680/1/him-v-the-university-of-pennsylvania/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in HIM v. THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (E.D. Pa., 2:22-cv-00246) – CourtListener.com

            Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 1 of 13




                      IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                    FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

YIENG HIM                                                      CIVIL DIVISION


       Plaintiff,                                             Civil Action No. 22-246



THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA                                COMPLAINT


       Defendant.                                             JURY TRIAL DEMANDED



                                            COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Yieng Him, by and through his undersigned counsel, The Lacy Employment

Law Firm LLC, hereby files this Complaint against Defendant and states as follows:

                    PROCEDURAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

       1.       All the allegations contained in the foregoing paragraphs of this Complaint are

incorporated by reference as if set forth herein at length.

       2.       Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b)(2) because a

substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred within this District.

       3.       On or about January 25, 2021, Plaintiff filed a charge with the Pennsylvania

Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”) alleging race-based discrimination. See PHRC Charge

of Discrimination, attached as Exhibit 1.

       4.       On or about June 9, 2021, Plaintiff filed a charge with the Philadelphia office of

the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) See EEOC Charge of

Discrimination. Id.
              Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 2 of 13




         5.       The EEOC issued a Right to Sue letter (“Right to Sue”) and Plaintiff timely filed

the above-captioned action on or before 90 days from receipt of the Right to Sue that the EEOC

issued. See Exhibit 3.

         6.       Plaintiff has fully complied with all administrative prerequisites for the

commencement of this action.

                                               PARTIES

         7.       Mr. Him is a 51-year-old Asian American man who resides at 332 Morris Ave.,

Crum Lynne, PA 19022.

         8.       The University of Pennsylvania is an institution of higher education, and upon

information and belief, has its principal place of business in Philadelphia.



                                     FACTUAL BACKGROUND


         9.       Mr. Him was an ​exemplary employee at University of Pennsylvania for twenty

years.

         10.      Over the last two years of his employment, a new supervisor, Daniel Thomas

began discriminating against Mr. Him for no reason other than ethnicity.

         11.      The discriminatory actions started off small. For example, on or about August 17,

2018, Mr. Him was blamed by Mr. Thomas and other staff members for not cleaning up food that

was left in a conference room, even though Mr. Him was not at that location during that time.

         12.      During the month of November 2018, Mr. Him reported an employee to Daniel

Thomas for failing to perform their duty of distributing fliers to other student workers. Mr.

Thomas not only completely disregarded Mr. Him’s concerns, but also made condescending

remarks including that Mr. Him distribute the fliers himself.



                                                    2
          Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 3 of 13




       13.     On or about March 6, 2019, Mr. Him was called into Mr. Thomas’ office and told

that he was being transferred to a less desirable location, and that his duties would be taken over

by another employee, Jared Wood.

       14.     Mr. Wood, a white man, believed to be in his 30s, was not qualified for the

position, having no experience in Active Directory, Windows server, Group Policy Object (GPO)

and enterprise network.

       15.     Transfer to another workspace prevented Mr. Him from performing his normal

duties of hosting staff meetings and collaborating with Senior Information Technology (IT)

personnel on projects.

       16.     In or around 2019, Mr. Thomas targetted Mr. Him by demonstrating to Mr. Him’s

subordinates that he had no power to manage his own team. He also further embarrassed Mr.

Him by giving his office cube to Jared, a white male, who was Mr. Him’s subordinate. This was

a continuous effort to show that Mr. Him had no authority position with the IT department.

       17.     On March 6, 2019, Mr. Him complained about the discrimination to Mr. Thomas'

supervisor, Marty Redman).

       18.     On March 7, 2019, a visibly angry Mr. Thomas asked Mr. Him to lunch, during

which Mr. Him stated, "I haven't worked with Chinks like you before". Mr. Him was completely

shocked at his language and was utterly disrespected, offended, uncomfortable, belittled, and

plainly speechless. He tried to avoid Mr. Thomas after this interaction as much as possible.

       19.     On or about June 20, 2020, Mr. Wood was terminated and Mr. him was reassigned

to his previous duties. He became responsible for the Student Training Project and NSO, which

suffered from neglect prior to Mr. Him’s reassignment.




                                                 3
           Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 4 of 13




        20.       Despite Mr. Thomas telling other staff members during a group meeting that the

Student Training Project and NSO were successful, he wrote up Mr. Him for poor performance

on the project.

        21.       Although Mr. Him had not changed his process for implementing the NSO project

in years, there were complaints at an employee meeting about this same process, on or about

September 19, 2020.

        22.       Mr. Thomas prevented Mr. Him from collaborating with fellow employees on the

project and refused to let him speak with the Senior Administrative Staff.

        23.       Mr. Thomas continued to systematically make it difficult for Mr. Him to perform

his duties and humiliated him through reprimands for inconsequential things for which he was

not at fault.

        24.       Between July and September 2020, several co-workers approached Mr. Him

stating that they believed that Mr. Thomas was prejudiced against him.

        25.       Mr. Him was the oldest and highest-paid employee in the UPenn IT department

(UPenn College Houses and Academic Services).

        26.       Younger employees were given preferential treatment and better assignments

within the department.

        27.       Upon information and belief, a younger employee replaced Mr. Him after his

termination.

        28.       Further conversations with other employees revealed the disparate race, and

age-based treatment by Mr. Thomas against Mr. Him.

        29.       Mr. Him filed a complaint with the PHRC on February 3, 2021.

        30.       On March 31, 2021, UPenn terminated Mr. Him’s employment.




                                                  4
             Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 5 of 13




        31.       Defendant terminated Mr. Him, in part, because he participated in protected

activity by filing a complaint with the PHRC. Defendant retaliated against Mr. Him for

internally and externally complaining about discrimination.


                                            COUNT I
                                          Section 1981
                  Race Discrimination, Hostile Work Environment, and Retaliation

        32.       Plaintiff re-alleges the allegations set for in paragraphs 1-27 above and

incorporates the same herein by reference.

        33.       Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory actions, as set forth herein, deprived

Plaintiff of the rights guaranteed under 42 U.S.C. § 1981; as such, its remedies are implicated.

        34.       Plaintiff had the right to make and enforce contracts, to sue, and to receive the full

and equal benefit of all laws.

        35.       Plaintiff was an at-will employee, which implicates his right to make and enforce

contracts.

        36.       Defendant abridged Plaintiff’s right to make and enforce contracts by its

discriminatory conduct toward Plaintiff.

        37.       As a result of Defendant's actions, Defendant has denied Plaintiff the right to the

same terms, conditions, privileges and benefits of their employment with Defendant.

        38.       Defendant, by and through its supervisors, intentionally discriminated against

Plaintiff on the basis of race.

        39.       Plaintiff was a member of protected classes and was qualified for the position that

Plaintiff held.

        40.       Defendant’s actions altered Plaintiff’s work environment.




                                                    5
          Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 6 of 13




        41.     The discrimination that Plaintiff faced detrimentally affected Plaintiff. And this

discrimination would detrimentally affect a reasonable person in like circumstances.

        42.     This severe and pervasive environment continued throughout Plaintiff’s

employment.

        43.     Defendant is liable for their supervisors under respondeat superior.

        44.     Plaintiff participated in protected conduct. Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff

because of his participation in protected activities. There is a causal connection between

Plaintiff’s participation in protected activities and the adverse employment action from which

Plaintiff suffered.

        45.     As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s acts and conduct, Plaintiff has

suffered and will suffer those injuries, damages, and losses alleged herein and has incurred and

will incur attorneys’ fees.

        46.     The wrongful acts and conduct of Defendant was done with deliberate

indifference to the statutory and constitutional rights of Plaintiff.

        47.     Plaintiff suffered adverse employment consequences, specifically, Defendant

retaliated against Plaintiff.

        48.     Plaintiff was terminated as a result of Defendant’s discriminatory conduct.

        49.     Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and

monetary damages as a result of Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until

the Court grants the relief requested.


                                           COUNT II
              Violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (“Title VII”)
               (Race Discrimination; Retaliation; Hostile Work Environment)




                                                   6
          Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 7 of 13




        50.       Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the above-mentioned

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        51.       Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory actions, as set forth herein, deprived

Plaintiff of the rights guaranteed under Title VII.

        52.       Defendant is a covered employer under Title VII and employs more than 15

employees.

        53.       As a result of Defendant's actions, Defendant has denied Plaintiff the right to the

same terms, conditions, privileges and benefits of Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant.

        54.       Defendant, by and through its supervisors, intentionally discriminated against

Plaintiff on the basis of race.

        55.       Plaintiff was a member of a protected class and was qualified for the position that

Plaintiff held.

        56.       Defendant’s actions altered Plaintiff’s work environment.

        57.       The discrimination that Plaintiff faced detrimentally affected Plaintiff. And this

discrimination would detrimentally affect a reasonable person in like circumstances.

        58.       This severe and pervasive environment continued throughout Plaintiff’s

employment.

        59.       Defendant is liable for their supervisors under respondeat superior.

        60.       Plaintiff participated in protected conduct. Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff

because of his participation in protected activities. There is a causal connection between

Plaintiff’s participation in protected activities and the adverse employment action from which

Plaintiff suffered.




                                                   7
           Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 8 of 13




        61.      As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s acts and conduct, Plaintiff has

suffered and will suffer those injuries, damages, and losses alleged herein and has incurred and

will incur attorneys’ fees.

        62.      The wrongful acts and conduct of Defendant were done with deliberate

indifference to the statutory and constitutional rights of Plaintiff.

        63.      Plaintiff suffered adverse employment consequences, specifically, Defendant

retaliated against Plaintiff.

        64.      Plaintiff was terminated as a result of Defendant’s discriminatory conduct.

        65.      Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and

monetary damages as a result of Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until

the Court grants the relief requested.

                                       COUNT III
         Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29. U.S.C. § 621, et seq. (“ADEA”)
                             (Discrimination and Retaliation)

        66.      Plaintiff incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth herein

in their entirety.

        67.      Based on the foregoing, Defendant engaged in unlawful employment practices in

violation of the ADEA.

        68.      Plaintiff is and was at the time of his termination, over forty years of age, and an

individual within the class protected by the ADEA.

        69.      In discriminating against and harassing Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s age,

Defendant violated the ADEA.

        70.      Plaintiff was, upon information and belief, replaced with a younger employee.

        71.      Defendant’s violations were intentional and willful.




                                                   8
          Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 9 of 13




        72.       Liquidated damages are warranted given Defendant’s willful violation of the

ADEA.

        73.       As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s unlawful employment practices,

Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and monetary damages as

a result of Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until the Court grants the

relief requested.

                                       COUNT IV1
                                         PHRA
          Race and Age Discrimination, Hostile Work Environment, and Retaliation

        74.       Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the above-mentioned

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        75.       Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory actions, as set forth herein, deprived

Plaintiff of the rights guaranteed under the PHRA.

        76.       As a result of Defendant's actions, Defendant has denied Plaintiff the right to the

same terms, conditions, privileges and benefits of Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant.

        77.       Defendant, by and through its supervisors, intentionally discriminated against

Plaintiff on the basis of race.

        78.       Plaintiff was a member of a protected class and was qualified for the position that

Plaintiff held.

        79.       Defendant’s actions altered Plaintiff’s work environment.

        80.       The discrimination that Plaintiff faced detrimentally affected Plaintiff. And this

discrimination would detrimentally affect a reasonable person in like circumstances.



1
  Claims under the PHRA are brought for notice reason only. Plaintiff has to wait a year for the PHRC to
issue a right to sue so that Plaintiff can amend his Complaint to add these claims. Plaintiff will move to
amend after he receives his right to sue letter from the PHRC.


                                                     9
          Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 10 of 13




        81.     This severe and pervasive environment continued throughout Plaintiff’s

employment.

        82.     Defendant is liable for their supervisors under respondeat superior.

        83.     Plaintiff participated in protected conduct. Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff

because of his participation in protected activities. There is a causal connection between

Plaintiff’s participation in protected activities and the adverse employment action from which

Plaintiff suffered.

        84.     As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s acts and conduct, Plaintiff has

suffered and will suffer those injuries, damages, and losses alleged herein and has incurred and

will incur attorneys’ fees.

        85.     The wrongful acts and conduct of Defendant were done with deliberate

indifference to the statutory and constitutional rights of Plaintiff.

        86.     Plaintiff suffered adverse employment consequences, specifically, Defendant

retaliated against Plaintiff.

        87.     Plaintiff was terminated as a result of Defendant’s discriminatory conduct.

        88.     Plaintiff is and was at the time of his termination, over forty years of age, and an

individual within the class protected by the PHRA.

        89.     In discriminating against and harassing Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s age,

Defendant violated the PHRA.

        90.     Plaintiff was, upon information and belief, replaced with a younger employee.

        91.     Defendant’s violations were intentional and willful.

        92.     Liquidated damages are warranted given Defendant’s willful violation of the

PHRA.




                                                  10
         Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 11 of 13




        93.      Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and

monetary damages as a result of Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until

the Court grants the relief requested.



                                      PRAYER FOR RELIEF

        WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks damages and legal and equitable relief in connection with

Defendant’s improper conduct, and specifically prays that the Court grant the following relief to

Plaintiff by:

              a) Declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be in violation of Section

                 1981;

              b) Enjoining and permanently retaining the violations alleged herein;

              c) Entering judgment against the Defendant and in favor of the Plaintiff in an

                 amount to be determined;

              d) Awarding compensatory damages to make Plaintiff whole for all lost earnings,

                 earning capacity and benefits, past and future, which Plaintiff has suffered or may

                 suffer as a result of Defendant’s improper conduct;

              e) Awarding compensatory damages to Plaintiff for past and future pain and

                 suffering, emotional upset, mental anguish, humiliation, and loss of life’s

                 pleasure, which Plaintiff has suffered or may suffer as a result of Defendant’s

                 improper conduct;

              f) Awarding punitive damages to Plaintiff;

              g) Awarding Plaintiff such other damages as are appropriate under Title VII, Section

                 1981, the PHRA, and the ADEA;



                                                  11
        Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 12 of 13




          h) Awarding Plaintiff the costs of suit, expert fees and other disbursements, and

              reasonable attorney’s fees; and,

          i) Granting such other and further relief as this Court may deem just, proper, or

              equitable including other equitable and injunctive relief providing restitution for

              past violations and preventing future violations.


       Plaintiff demands a jury trial on all triable issues in the above-captioned matter.




Respectfully submitted


                                                      /s/ Andrew Lacy, Jr.
Dated: January 20, 2022                               Andrew Lacy, Jr. Esq.
                                                      THE LACY EMPLOYMENT LAW
                                                      FIRM LLC
                                                      2514 W Seybert Street
                                                      Philadelphia, PA
                                                      (t) 412-301-3908
                                                      andrew.lacy@employment-labor-law.com

                                                      Counsel for Plaintiff




                                                 12
Case 2:22-cv-00246-PBT Document 1 Filed 01/20/22 Page 13 of 13




                              13
