Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/61567298/1/dinh-v-the-good-samaritan-hospital-of-lebanon-pennsyvlvania/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in DINH v. THE GOOD SAMARITAN HOSPITAL OF LEBANON, PENNSYVLVANIA (E.D. Pa., 2:21-cv-05129) – CourtListener.com

         Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 1 of 12




                        IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                     FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

                                                :
 BOINGOC “MARY” DINH, D.O.,                     :        CIVIL ACTION
 13402 Harpers Bridge Drive                     :
 Houston, TX 77041,                             :
                                                :        NO. 2:21-CV-5129
                     Plaintiff,                 :
                                                :
              -V.-                              :
                                                :
 THE GOOD SAMARITAN HOSPITAL OF                 :        JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
 LEBANON, PENNSYVLVANIA, d/b/a                  :
 WELLSPAN GOOD SAMARITAN HOSPITAL,              :
 4th and Walnut Streets                         :
 Lebanon, PA 17042,                             :
                                                :
            -and-                               :
                                                :
 WELLSPAN HEALTH                                :
 1001 South George Street                       :
 York, PA 17405                                 :
                                                :
                     Defendants.                :
                                                :

                                        COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O., by and through undersigned counsel, hereby brings

this action against defendants The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a

WellSpan Good Samaritan Hospital and WellSpan Health, and avers as follows:

                                           PARTIES

       1.     Plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O. (“Dinh”), is an adult individual residing at

13402 Harpers Bridge Drive, Houston, TX 77041.

       2.     Defendant The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a

WellSpan Good Samaritan Hospital (“Hospital”) is a Pennsylvania non-profit corporation with

its registered address at 4th and Walnut Streets, Lebanon, PA 17042.
         Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 2 of 12




       3.       Defendant WellSpan Health (“Health System”) is a Pennsylvania non-profit

corporation with its registered office located at 1001 S. George Street, York, PA 17405.

       4.       At all times relevant hereto, defendant Health System has owned and operated

defendant Hospital.

       5.       On April 13, 2021, Dinh dual filed a Charge of Discrimination against Defendants

with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Agency and the Pennsylvania Human Relations

Commission.

       6.       On October 10, 2021, Dinh received her Notice of Right to Sue Letter.

                                 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

       7.       Jurisdiction exists in this matter pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§1331 (Federal Question

Jurisdiction) and 1367 (Supplemental Jurisdiction).

       8.       Venue lies within this Judicial District pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §2000e-5(f)(3), the

alleged unlawful employment practices having been committed in the Commonwealth of

Pennsylvania.

                                  FACTUAL BACKGROUND

       9.       Dinh is a Buddhist, female of Vietnamese descent. Dinh graduated from the Texas

College of Osteopathic Medicine in 2017.

       10.      In or about July 2018, Dinh commenced a 3-year family medicine residency

program at Hospital. As a resident of the Hospital’s program, Dinh became an employee of

Health System.

       11.      The residency program Director was Dr. Abdul Waheed (Muslim, male) and the

Associate Director was Dr. Muhammad Nausherwan Khan (Muslim, male).

       12.      From the very outset of the program, Drs. Waheed and Khan subjected non-



                                                 2
           Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 3 of 12




Muslim residents, including Dinh, to harassment and treated the Muslim residents in the program

preferably.

       13.     Former resident Travis Berger (non-Muslim) was targeted by Dr. Waheed, who

required Dr. Berger to see a psychiatrist to be cleared to go back to work. Dr. Waheed also

pulled Dr. Berger into a human resources meeting and harassed him during precepting.

       14.     Dr. Waheed was precepting with a medical student when he had a temper tantrum

in which he berated Daphne Heck, LPN, a nursing supervisor, so badly that she began crying.

The medical student shadowing Dr. Waheed felt unsafe and subsequently complained to the

program coordinator, Sally Bachman (white Christian woman), that she felt unsafe around Dr.

Waheed. The medical student left the rotation because of Dr. Waheed’s abusive behavior.

       15.     Dr. Waheed had another emotional outburst at former chief resident Jelisa Caroll

for 2019-2020 (Black, Christian woman) during a residency meeting, which was verbally

abusive.

       16.     Sally Bachman, the program coordinator, quit due to repetitive verbal abuse by

Dr. Waheed.

       17.     Wendy Brendle (Christian woman), the associate program coordinator, also quit

because of Dr. Waheed aggressive and demeaning language toward her.

       18.     Dr. Waheed reprimanded Dr. Nora Callinan (non-Muslim woman) for

moonlighting and taking additional work shifts at Hospital, but did not subject Dr. Muhammad

Nausherwan Khan (Muslim, man) treatment when he picked up additional shifts at Hospital.

       19.     Dr. Waheed and Dr. Khan specifically targeted Dinh and worked together to

poison the minds of other physicians about her performance as a resident.

       20.     Dr. Waheed falsely told Dinh’s academic advisor that he contacted several



                                                3
           Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 4 of 12




physicians who stated that they felt coerced into giving Dinh positive evaluations.

         21.   On multiple occasion, Dr. Waheed held meetings with Dinh without another

person present, during which he unfairly berated Dinh about her academic performance. Dr.

Waheed falsely criticized Dinh’s knowledge and training when, in fact, Dinh had performed at or

above average on her in-training service exams in comparison to her colleagues in the same

class.

         22.   Dinh’s cumulative evaluations from July 2018 – August 2020 were favorable in

comparison to her colleagues in the program. In particular, in comparison with the same year

colleague Fauzan Ahmed (Muslim male), Dinh far outperformed him in terms of in-training

service exam scores. Dinh also passed her COMLEX 3 boards, while he failed his USMLE board

and had to retake his exam. When Truongson Nguyen (Vietnamese, Buddhist) failed his boards,

he was very harshly criticized by Dr. Waheed, but when Fauzan failed his STEP 3 board exam,

Dr. Waheed treated it as a non-issue.

         23.   The residents in the program therefore were sent a clear message -- that if you are

male and Muslim, you would receive favorable treatment from Dr. Waheed and Dr. Khan. In

fact, Dr. Khan would routinely speak in a foreign language to Fauzan Ahmend during clinic,

purposefully excluding the non-Muslim residents from their work-related conversations.

         24.   On June 15, 2020, Dinh had a syncopal episode at work while working the night

shift. She had worked 76 hours in one week with additional hours chart reviewing.

         25.   Dr. Waheed instructed Dinh not to document the additional hours.

         26.   As a result of her medical condition, Dinh had to take a 3-week medical leave of

absence.

         27.   When Dinh returned from her medical leave for two weeks, she learned that a



                                                4
         Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 5 of 12




resident who was in charge of her in-basket (responding to patient request, etc.) had failed to

perform those duties.

       28.     Dinh notified Dr. Waheed of this, but instead of addressing the other resident’s

failure, Dr. Waheed harassed Dinh.

       29.     On July 24, 2020, Dinh had another meeting with Dr. Waheed, during which he

berated Dinh until she had a severe panic attack. Dinh’s treating physician provided her with a

note, requiring that she stay away from Dr. Waheed. Dinh was diagnosed with PTSD

exacerbated by work conditions.

       30.     Subsequently, Dinh went on medical leave for 4 months and she filed formal

complaints of harassment with Hospital’s HR Department and with the Accreditation Council for

Graduate Medical Education (“ACGME”). During this process, Dinh was informed that five (5)

faculty members had notified Dr. Michael Bohrn, Dr. Waheed’s direct supervisor, of Dr.

Waheed’s abuse of residents.

       31.     After filing the formal complaints on July 24, 2020, Dinh became the target of

retaliation. Dinh was placed on remediation plan, during which she received no support or any

help that was promised her.

       32.     On July 13, 2020, Dinh returned to work from her medical leave. She was

immediately assigned an abusive and retaliatory work schedule. Dinh was assigned three (3)

consecutive months of 76-80 hour work weeks. No other resident received the same work load.

       33.     Dinh’s performance evaluations before she made the formal complaints had been

fair and objective. But after she returned from medical leave, Dinh’s evaluations were incredibly

poor and completely unreasonable. Dr. Khan, who was a subject of Dinh’s formal complaints,

made every interaction with him a nightmare for Dinh, and unreasonably criticized her



                                                 5
         Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 6 of 12




performance.

       34.     Dinh’s academic advisor, Dr. Aaron Lane (non-Muslim), confided in Dinh that,

while Dinh was on leave, Dr. Khan had an anger episode in the parking lot and told Dr. Lane that

he wanted Dinh to receive a zero in every ACGME performance milestone.

       35.     On December 28, 2020, Dinh requested Defendants to complete her licensing

verification for the Oregon State Medical Board. Defendants failed to do so.

       36.     After being picked apart on every single interaction of patient care with Dr. Khan

and after having been threatened with being placed on probation, Dinh could no longer tolerate

the hostile and abusive work environment, and she felt she had no choice but to resign on

January 25, 2021.

       37.     On February 17, 2021, for the second time, Dinh requested Defendants to

complete her licensing verification to the Oregon State Medical Board. Defendants refused to do

so unless Dinh signed a waiver and release of claims.

       38.     On March 16, 2021, Dinh was informed by an attending physician who had

written her an excellent letter of recommendation, that Defendants had instructed him not to send

the letter of recommendation.

                                             COUNT I
                                Title VII – Religious Discrimination

       39.     Dinh incorporates herein the previous averments as if fully set forth.

       40.     As a non-Muslim resident in Defendants’ program, Dinh was subjected to

unlawful discrimination and disparate treatment on the basis of her religion.

       41.     Defendants’ conduct as aforesaid constitutes discrimination on the basis of

religion in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.

       42.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered and will continue to suffer

                                                  6
         Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 7 of 12




monetary damages, including lost wages and benefits.

       43.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has been and will be required to expend

monies for expenses, including medical treatment.

       44.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered emotional distress,

embarrassment, humiliation and damage to her reputation and earning capacity.

       45.     The conduct of Defendants was extreme and outrageous, thereby justifying the

imposition of punitive damages.

       WHEREFORE, plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O. demands judgment in her favor and

against defendants The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a WellSpan

Good Samaritan Hospital and WellSpan Health, jointly and severally, for backpay, front pay,

compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs of suit.

                                          COUNT II
                              Title VII – Gender Discrimination

       46.     Dinh incorporates herein the previous averments as if fully set forth.

       47.     As a female resident in Defendants’ program, Dinh was subjected to unlawful

discrimination and disparate treatment on the basis of her gender.

       48.     Defendants’ conduct as aforesaid constitutes discrimination on the basis of sex in

violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.

       49.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered and will continue to suffer

monetary damages, including lost wages and benefits.

       50.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has been and will be required to expend

monies for expenses, including medical treatment.

       51.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered emotional distress,

embarrassment, humiliation and damage to her reputation and earning capacity.

                                                7
         Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 8 of 12




       52.     The conduct of Defendants was extreme and outrageous, thereby justifying the

imposition of punitive damages.

       WHEREFORE, plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O. demands judgment in her favor and

against defendants The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a WellSpan

Good Samaritan Hospital and WellSpan Health, jointly and severally, for backpay, front pay,

compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs of suit.

                                          COUNT III
                                 ADA – Disability Discrimination

       53.      Dinh incorporates herein the previous averments as if fully set forth.

       54.     As a result of the harassment to which she was subjected as a resident in

Defendants’ program, Dinh developed from an impairment, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, that

substantially limits one or more of her major life activities.

       55.     Dinh was regarded by Defendants as suffering from an impairment that

substantially limits one or more of her major life activities.

       56.     Defendants’ conduct as aforesaid constitutes a violation of the Americans with

Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §12101, et seq.

       57.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered and will continue to suffer

monetary damages, including lost wages and benefits.

       58.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has been and will be required to expend

monies for expenses, including medical treatment.

       59.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered emotional distress,

embarrassment, humiliation and damage to her reputation and earning capacity.

       60.     The conduct of Defendants was extreme and outrageous, thereby justifying the

imposition of punitive damages.

                                                  8
         Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 9 of 12




       WHEREFORE, plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O. demands judgment in her favor and

against defendants The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a WellSpan

Good Samaritan Hospital and WellSpan Health, jointly and severally, for backpay, front pay,

compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs of suit.

                                            COUNT IV
                                      Title VII – Retaliation

       61.      Dinh incorporates herein the previous averments as if fully set forth.

       62.     Title VII prohibits retaliation in the workplace against employees who have, inter

alia, opposed practices made unlawful under the law.

       63.     Dinh’s formal complaints filed against Dr. Waheed and Dr. Khan constitute

“protected activity” pursuant to state and federal law.

       64.     Defendants retaliated against Dinh on account of her protected activity by

subjecting her to harassment, giving her poor performance evaluations, threatening to place her

on probation, and refusing to promptly and accurately report her progress to licensing bodies.

       65.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered and will continue to suffer

monetary damages, including lost wages and benefits.

       66.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has been and will be required to expend

monies for expenses, including medical treatment.

       67.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered emotional distress,

embarrassment, humiliation and damage to her reputation and earning capacity.

       68.     The conduct of Defendants was extreme and outrageous, thereby justifying the

imposition of punitive damages.

       WHEREFORE, plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O. demands judgment in her favor and

against defendants The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a WellSpan

                                                 9
        Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 10 of 12




Good Samaritan Hospital and WellSpan Health, jointly and severally, for backpay, front pay,

compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs of suit.


                                         COUNT V
                                       ADA - Retaliation

       69.     Dinh incorporates herein the previous averments as if fully set forth.

       70.     The ADA prohibits retaliation in the workplace against employees who have,

inter alia, sought assistance for an accommodation in the workplace or to have otherwise

opposed practices made unlawful under the law.

       71.     Dinh’s request for accommodations in the workplace and formal complaints filed

against Dr. Waheed and Dr. Khan constitute “protected activity” pursuant to state and federal

law.

       72.     Defendants retaliated against Dinh on account of her protected activity by

subjecting her to harassment, giving her poor performance evaluations, threatening to place her

on probation, and refusing to promptly and accurately report her progress to licensing bodies.

       73.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered and will continue to suffer

monetary damages, including lost wages and benefits.

       74.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has been and will be required to expend

monies for expenses, including medical treatment.

       75.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered emotional distress,

embarrassment, humiliation and damage to her reputation and earning capacity.

       76.     The conduct of Defendants was extreme and outrageous, thereby justifying the

imposition of punitive damages.

       WHEREFORE, plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O. demands judgment in her favor and



                                               10
        Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 11 of 12




against defendants The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a WellSpan

Good Samaritan Hospital and WellSpan Health, jointly and severally, for backpay, front pay,

compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs of suit.

                                       COUNT VI
                                   PHRA -- Discrimination

       77.     Dinh incorporates herein the previous averments as if fully set forth.

       78.    Defendants’ conduct as aforesaid constitutes a violation of the Pennsylvania

Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. §955 et seq.

       79.    As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered and will continue to suffer

monetary damages, including lost wages and benefits.

       80.    As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has been and will be required to expend

monies for expenses, including medical treatment.

       81.    As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered emotional distress,

embarrassment, humiliation and damage to his reputation and earning capacity.

       WHEREFORE, plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O. demands judgment in her favor and

against defendants The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a WellSpan

Good Samaritan Hospital and WellSpan Health, jointly and severally, for backpay, front pay,

compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs of suit.

                                        COUNT VII
                                     PHRA -- Retaliation

       82.     Dinh incorporates herein the previous averments as if fully set forth.

       83.     The PHRA prohibits retaliation in the workplace against employees who have,

inter alia, sought assistance for an accommodation in the workplace or otherwise opposed

practices made unlawful under the law.



                                               11
        Case 2:21-cv-05129-NIQA Document 1 Filed 11/22/21 Page 12 of 12




       84.     Dinh’s conduct, as aforesaid, constitutes “protected activity” pursuant to state and

federal law.

       85.     Defendants have retaliated against Dinh, as aforesaid.

       86.     As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Dinh has suffered harm.

       WHEREFORE, plaintiff Boingoc “Mary” Dinh, D.O. demands judgment in her favor and

against defendants The Good Samaritan Hospital of Lebanon, Pennsylvania d/b/a WellSpan

Good Samaritan Hospital and WellSpan Health, jointly and severally, for backpay, front pay,

compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs of suit.




Date: November 22, 2021                      /s/ Stanley B. Cheiken
                                             STANLEY B. CHEIKEN, ESQUIRE

                                             2617 Huntingdon Pike
                                             Huntingdon Valley, PA 19006
                                             (215) 572-8600
                                             Counsel for Plaintiff




                                                12
