Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/61577338/1/turner-v-pennsylvania-ballet/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in TURNER v. PENNSYLVANIA BALLET (E.D. Pa., 2:21-cv-05228) – CourtListener.com

         Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 1 of 21




                       IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                    FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


ATIYA TURNER                                   )
                                               )       CIVIL ACTION NO.:
       Plaintiff,                              )
                                               )
            v.                                 )
                                               )       COMPLAINT AND JURY DEMAND
PENNSYLVANIA BALLET AND                        )
AMBER HINSHAW                                  )
                                               )
       Defendants.                             )



                                          COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Atiya Turner, by and through her undersigned counsel, The Lacy Employment

Law Firm LLC, hereby file this Complaint against Defendants and state as follows:

                    PROCEDURAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

       1.        All the allegations contained in the foregoing paragraphs of this Complaint are

incorporated by reference as if set forth herein at length.

       2.        Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b)(2) because a

substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred within this District.

       3.        On or about June 3, 2021, Plaintiff Turner dual-filed a charge with the

Philadelphia office of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission alleging sex, and race discrimination as well as

retaliation. See EEOC Charge of Discrimination, attached as Exhibit 1.
           Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 2 of 21




        4.       The EEOC issued a Right to Sue Letter (“Right to Sue”), and Plaintiff timely filed

the above-captioned action on or before 90 days from receipt of the Right to Sue that the EEOC

issued. Id.

        5.       Plaintiff has fully complied with all administrative prerequisites for the

commencement of this action.

                                     JURISDICTION AND PARTIES

        6.       Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b) and 42 U.S.C.

§2000(e)-5(f).

        7.         This District Court has jurisdiction over Counts I and II (§ 1981 and Title VII)

pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §2000e-5 and 28 U.S.C. §1331.

        8.       This District Court has jurisdiction over Count III (PHRA) pursuant to pendent

supplemental jurisdiction.1

        9.       Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b)(2) because a

substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred within this District.

        10.        Ms. Turner is a black woman who worked, at all relevant times, for the

Pennsylvania Ballet (“PA Ballet”) at 323 N. Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

        11.      PA Ballet also “regularly conducts business” in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. at

250 South Broad Street.


        12.      Ms. Amber Hinshaw is a current employee at the PA Ballet and works at 323 N.

Broad Street, Philadelphia Pennsylvania.



1
 It has been less than one year since Plaintiff’s dual-filed their Charge of Discrimination as a Complaint with the
Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission for Defendant’s violations of the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act,
43 P.S. § 951, et seq. (“PHRA”). Plaintiff will seek to amend her Complaint in this matter to add her PHRA claims
once she has exhausted her administrative remedy with respect to those claims. PHRA claims are added for notice
purposes only.


                                                         2
         Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 3 of 21




                                   FACTUAL BACKGROUND

       13.      Atiya Turner, a black woman, worked for the PA Ballet for six months. PA Ballet

hired her on January 2, 2020, as the Front Desk Receptionist in the PA Ballet reporting to Amber

Hinshaw.


       14.       Ms. Hinshaw held Ms. Turner to a higher standard than her counterparts. For

example, during the George Floyd riots – a tumultuous time for race relations in America – Ms.

Hinshaw stated that Ms. Turner and another black woman, Jessica Avery, only retained their jobs

because they are black.


       15.      Also, Ms. Hinshaw created a hostile work environment by using severe and

pervasive comments to create a hostile working condition for Ms. Turner.


             a. Ms. Hinshaw also commented that she was “extra thankful” that she had an IUD

                during this time. She expounded upon this, noting that she could not imagine

                having a child at this time.


             b. Ms. Hinshaw inquired whether Ms. Turner would be “leaving the city,”

                presumably because of Philadelphia’s large African-American population.


             c. Noting that Ms. Turner’s pregnancy was higher risk, Ms. Hinshaw did not want

                Ms. Turner on the job site.


       16.      Ms. Turner complained on multiple occasions that she believed that Ms. Hinshaw

treated her differently because she had a child.




                                                   3
        Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 4 of 21




       17.      Ms. Hinshaw promised Ms. Turner a shift and work and then reneged on this

promise after Ms. Turner and Ms. Hinshaw conversed about Ms. Turner’s childcare situation.

             a. Ms. Turner worked with Ms. Hinshaw to address her childcare concerns, after Ms.

                Hinshaw misrepresented the option to work remotely during the summer of 2021

                due to COVId-19.

             b. On August 18, 2021, Ms. Turner again explained her childcare situation to Ms.

                Hinshaw, delineating that she was waiting to hear from a private school for her

                five-year-old. Ms. Hinshaw stated that she was flexible and happy to work with

                her availability.

             c. Ms. Turner then asked whether anything was “going to be different with the

                limited opening . . . and what is the hour expectation?” Ms. Hinshaw responded

                29 hours a week.      After reminding Ms. Hinshaw to complete the necessary

                paperwork for her child’s school, Ms. Hinshaw finally provided Ms. Turner with

                the form on August 31, 2020.

             d. Ms. Hinshaw never finalized Ms. Turner’s schedule and she summarily

                terminated her employment in retaliation for making complaints and raising the

                issue of her childcare. With respect to her schedule, Ms. Hinshaw explained that:

                “I realized I never actually confirmed your schedule with you. We went back and

                forth a little and I filled in the form for your daughter's school, but we didn’t

                actually set anything in stone.”

             e. Relying on Ms. Hinshaw’s previous statements of job security and flexibility, Ms.

                Turner responded and stated that she was waiting on her daughter’s assistance,




                                                   4
         Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 5 of 21




                which could take up to 30 days. And that she could not come back full time just

                yet until the school makes its decision regarding assistance.

             f. Ms. Hinshaw, in a text that displayed anything but flexibility and understanding,

                asked: “What does that mean for you working this week?” Ms. Hinshaw went on

                to probe, immediately after Ms. Turner raised childcare concerns, about whether

                Ms. Turner could work on Saturday. Ms. Turner replied that she could not work

                Saturday but that she could work any other day.

             g. Further, Ms. Turner scrambled to find childcare and even offered to work the next

                available day, which was Wednesday. Ms. Hinshaw’s response: “If starting work

                this week was going to be a problem, you should have told me sooner. I’m

                heading home now. I’ll get back to you tomorrow.”

             h. The next day, Ms. Hinshaw stated that the Wednesday night shift was covered.

                Indeed, Ms. Hinshaw displayed zero “flexibility” towards Ms. Turner. PA Ballet

                terminated Ms. Turner on September 10, 2020; the very next day.


       18.      Ms. Hinshaw regularly subjected Ms. Turner to disparate treatment due to her

being a black and a pregnant woman with children.


       19.      Ms. Hinshaw's unlawful conduct was also severe and pervasive enough to change

Ms. Turner condition of employment and create an abusive and hostile work environment W. v.

Phila. Elec. Co., 45 F.3d 744, 757 (3d Cir. 1995). As previously stated, Ms. Hinshaw made

multiple comments related to Ms. Tuner’s race and gender.


       20.      Further, Ms. Hinshaw’s comments regarding Ms. Turner’s capabilities as a mother

constitute “sex-plus” discrimination. Weightman v. Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, 772



                                                  5
          Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 6 of 21




F. Supp. 2d 693, 701 (W.D. Pa. 2011) (“In other words, an employer who treats women with

small children differently than women without small children would be liable for sex-plus

discrimination; with the “plus” being stereotypical assumptions regarding women's childcare

responsibilities.”). As discussed above, Ms. Hinshaw took adverse action against Ms. Turner

after commenting on her status as a woman with children and conversing with Ms. Turner about

her childcare situation.


                                            COUNT I
                                          Section 1981
             Race and Sex Discrimination, Hostile Work Environment, and Retaliation
                                 (PA Ballet and Amber Hinshaw)

        21.      Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the above-mentioned

paragraphs fully as if they were set forth at length.

        22.      Defendants’ discriminatory and retaliatory actions, as set forth herein, deprived

Plaintiff of the rights guaranteed under 42 U.S.C. § 1981; as such, its remedies are implicated.

        23.      Plaintiff had the right to make and enforce contracts, to sue, and to receive the full

and equal benefit of all laws.

        24.      Plaintiff was an at will employee, which implicates her right to make and enforce

contracts.

        25.      Defendants abridged Plaintiff’s right to make and enforce contracts by its

discriminatory conduct toward Plaintiff.

        26.      As a result of Defendants' actions, Defendants have denied Plaintiff the right to

the same terms, conditions, privileges and benefits of her employment with Defendants.

        27.      PA Ballet, by and through its supervisors, intentionally discriminated against

Plaintiff on the basis of race.




                                                   6
          Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 7 of 21




        28.       Plaintiff was a member of a protected class and was qualified for the position that

Plaintiff held.

        29.       Defendants’ actions altered Plaintiff’s work environment.

        30.       The discrimination that Plaintiff faced detrimentally affected Plaintiff. And this

discrimination would detrimentally affect a reasoanble pereson in like circumstances.

        31.       This severe and pervasive environment continued throughout Plaintiff’s

employment.

        32.       Defendants are liable for their supervisors under respondeat superior.

        33.       Plaintiff participated in protected conduct. PA Ballet retaliated against Plaintiff

because of her participation in protected activities. There is a causal connection between

Plaintiff’s participation in protected activities and the adverse employment action from which

Plaintiff suffered.

        34.       As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ acts and conduct, Plaintiff has

suffered and will suffer those injuries, damages, and losses alleged herein and has incurred and

will incur attorneys’ fees.

        35.       The wrongful acts and conduct of Defendants was done with deliberate

indifference to the statutory and constitutional rights of Plaintiff.

        36.       Plaintiff suffered adverse employment consequences, specifically, PA Ballet

retaliated against Plaintiff.

        37.       Plaintiff was terminated as a result of Defendants’ discriminatory conduct.

        38.       Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and

monetary damages as a result of Defendants’ discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until

the Court grants the relief requested.




                                                    7
          Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 8 of 21




                                          COUNT II
             Violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (“Title VII”)
           (Race and Sex Discrimination; Retaliation; Hostile Work Environment)
                                           (PA Ballet)

        39.       Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the above-mentioned

paragraphs fully as if they were set forth at length.

        40.       PA Ballet’s discriminatory and retaliatory actions, as set forth herein, deprived

Plaintiff of the rights guaranteed under Title VII.

        41.       PA Ballet is a covered employer under Title VII and employees more than 15

employees.

        42.       As a result of PA Ballet's actions, PA Ballet has denied Plaintiff the right to the

same terms, conditions, privileges and benefits of Plaintiff’s employment with PA Ballet.

        43.       PA Ballet, by and through its supervisors, intentionally discriminated against

Plaintiff on the basis of race and sex.

        44.       Plaintiff was a member of a protected class and was qualified for the position that

Plaintiff held.

        45.       PA Ballet’s actions altered Plaintiff’s work environment.

        46.       The discrimination that Plaintiff faced detrimentally affected Plaintiff. And this

discrimination would detrimentally affect a reasoanble pereson in like circumstances.

        47.       This severe and pervasive environment continued throughout Plaintiff’s

employment.

        48.       PA Ballet is liable for their supervisors under respondeat superior.

        49.       Plaintiff participated in protected conduct. PA Ballet retaliated against Plaintiff

because of her participation in protected activities. There is a causal connection between




                                                    8
          Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 9 of 21




Plaintiff’s participation in protected activities and the adverse employment action from which

Plaintiff suffered.

        50.      As a direct and proximate result of PA Ballet’s acts and conduct, Plaintiff has

suffered and will suffer those injuries, damages, and losses alleged herein and has incurred and

will incur attorneys’ fees.

        51.      The wrongful acts and conduct of PA Ballet were done with deliberate

indifference to the statutory and constitutional rights of Plaintiff.

        52.      Plaintiff suffered adverse employment consequences, specifically, PA Ballet

retaliated against Plaintiff.

        53.      Plaintiff is a woman with childcare issues.            She is protected under the

characteristic of “sex-plus.” She was discriminated against because of her status as being a

woman with young children.

        54.      Plaintiff was terminated as a result of PA Ballet’s discriminatory conduct.

        55.      Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and

monetary damages as a result of PA Ballet’s discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until

the Court grants the relief requested.

                                       PRAYER FOR RELIEF

                                               RELIEF

        WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks damages and legal and equitable relief in connection with

Defendants’ improper conduct, and specifically prays that the Court grant the following relief to

Plaintiff by:

              a) Declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be in violation of Section

                 1981 and Title VII;




                                                   9
       Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 10 of 21




         b) Enjoining and permanently retraining the violations alleged herein;

         c) Entering judgment against the Defendants and in favor of the Plaintiff in an

             amount to be determined;

         d) Awarding compensatory damages to make Plaintiff whole for all lost earnings,

             earning capacity and benefits, past and future, which Plaintiff has suffered or may

             suffer as a result of Defendants’ improper conduct;

         e) Awarding compensatory damages to Plaintiff for past and future pain and

             suffering, emotional upset, mental anguish, humiliation, and loss of life’s

             pleasure, which Plaintiff has suffered or may suffer as a result of Defendants’

             improper conduct;

         f) Awarding punitive damages to Plaintiff;

         g) Awarding Plaintiff such other damages as are appropriate under Title VII and

             Section 1981;

         h) Awarding Plaintiff the costs of suit, expert fees and other disbursements, and

             reasonable attorney’s fees; and,

         i) Granting such other and further relief as this Court may deem just, proper, or

             equitable including other equitable and injunctive relief providing restitution for

             past violations and preventing future violations.




                                                           Respectfully submitted,


                                                           /s/ Andrew Lacy, Jr.
Dated: November 26, 2021                                   Andrew Lacy, Jr. Esq.
                                                           THE LACY EMPLOYMENT
                                                           LAW FIRM LLC


                                                10
Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 11 of 21




                                       2514 W Seybert Street
                                       Philadelphia, PA
                                       (t) 412-301-3908
                                       andrew.lacy@employment-labor-law
                                       .com

                                       Counsel for Plaintiffs




                              11
Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 12 of 21




                      Exhibit 1
                          Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 13 of 21
EEOC Form 161 (11/2020)                  U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION

                                                 DISMISSAL AND NOTICE OF RIGHTS
To:    Atiya Turner                                                                   From:     Philadelphia District Office
       5297 Wayne Ave                                                                           801 Market Street
       Philadelphia, PA 19144                                                                   Suite 1000
                                                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19107


                            On behalf of person(s) aggrieved whose identity is
                            CONFIDENTIAL (29 CFR §1601.7(a))
EEOC Charge No.                                 EEOC Representative                                                    Telephone No.

                                                Legal Unit,
530-2021-03648                                  Legal Technician                                                       (267) 589-9707
THE EEOC IS CLOSING ITS FILE ON THIS CHARGE FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:
                 The facts alleged in the charge fail to state a claim under any of the statutes enforced by the EEOC.

                 Your allegations did not involve a disability as defined by the Americans With Disabilities Act.

                 The Respondent employs less than the required number of employees or is not otherwise covered by the statutes.

                 Your charge was not timely filed with EEOC; in other words, you waited too long after the date(s) of the alleged
                 discrimination to file your charge
       X         The EEOC issues the following determination: The EEOC will not proceed further with its investigation, and makes no
                 determination about whether further investigation would establish violations of the statute. This does not mean the claims
                 have no merit. This determination does not certify that the respondent is in compliance with the statutes. The EEOC
                 makes no finding as to the merits of any other issues that might be construed as having been raised by this charge.
                 The EEOC has adopted the findings of the state or local fair employment practices agency that investigated this charge.

                 Other (briefly state)

                                                         - NOTICE OF SUIT RIGHTS -
                                                   (See the additional information attached to this form.)

Title VII, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, or the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act: This will be the only notice of dismissal and of your right to sue that we will send you.
You may file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) under federal law based on this charge in federal or state court. Your
lawsuit must be filed WITHIN 90 DAYS of your receipt of this notice; or your right to sue based on this charge will be
lost. (The time limit for filing suit based on a claim under state law may be different.)

Equal Pay Act (EPA): EPA suits must be filed in federal or state court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the
alleged EPA underpayment. This means that backpay due for any violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years)
before you file suit may not be collectible.

                                                                     On behalf of the Commission




                                                                                                                     08/31/2021
Enclosures(s)                                                                                                                  (Date Issued)
                                                                    Dana R. Hutter,
                                                                    Deputy Director
cc:
           Carol Scarazzini                                                          Andrew Lacy, Jr.
           Director of Finance & Human Resources                                     THE LACY EMPLOYMENT LAW FIRM LLC
           PENNSYLVANIA BALLET                                                       2514 W Seybert Street
           100 S. Broad Street                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19121
           Philadelphia, PA 19110
                  Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 14 of 21
Enclosure with EEOC
Form 161 (11/2020)
                                             INFORMATION RELATED TO FILING SUIT
                                           UNDER THE LAWS ENFORCED BY THE EEOC
                               (This information relates to filing suit in Federal or State court under Federal law.
                      If you also plan to sue claiming violations of State law, please be aware that time limits and other
                             provisions of State law may be shorter or more limited than those described below.)


                                       Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS               --
                                       the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), or the Age
                                       Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA):

In order to pursue this matter further, you must file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) named in the charge within
90 days of the date you receive this Notice. Therefore, you should keep a record of this date. Once this 90-
day period is over, your right to sue based on the charge referred to in this Notice will be lost. If you intend to
consult an attorney, you should do so promptly. Give your attorney a copy of this Notice, and its envelope or
record of receipt, and tell him or her the date you received it. Furthermore, in order to avoid any question that you
did not act in a timely manner, it is prudent that your suit be filed within 90 days of the date this Notice was
issued to you (as indicated where the Notice is signed) or the date of the postmark or record of receipt, if later.

Your lawsuit may be filed in U.S. District Court or a State court of competent jurisdiction. (Usually, the appropriate
State court is the general civil trial court.) Whether you file in Federal or State court is a matter for you to decide
after talking to your attorney. Filing this Notice is not enough. You must file a "complaint" that contains a short
statement of the facts of your case which shows that you are entitled to relief. Your suit may include any matter
alleged in the charge or, to the extent permitted by court decisions, matters like or related to the matters alleged in
the charge. Generally, suits are brought in the State where the alleged unlawful practice occurred, but in some
cases can be brought where relevant employment records are kept, where the employment would have been, or
where the respondent has its main office. If you have simple questions, you usually can get answers from the
office of the clerk of the court where you are bringing suit, but do not expect that office to write your complaint or
make legal strategy decisions for you.

PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS               --   Equal Pay Act (EPA):

EPA suits must be filed in court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the alleged EPA underpayment: back
pay due for violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible. For
example, if you were underpaid under the EPA for work performed from 7/1/08 to 12/1/08, you should file suit
before 7/1/10 – not 12/1/10 -- in order to recover unpaid wages due for July 2008. This time limit for filing an EPA
suit is separate from the 90-day filing period under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA referred to above.
Therefore, if you also plan to sue under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA, in addition to suing on the EPA
claim, suit must be filed within 90 days of this Notice and within the 2- or 3-year EPA back pay recovery period.

ATTORNEY REPRESENTATION --                     Title VII, the ADA or GINA:

If you cannot afford or have been unable to obtain a lawyer to represent you, the U.S. District Court having jurisdiction
in your case may, in limited circumstances, assist you in obtaining a lawyer. Requests for such assistance must be
made to the U.S. District Court in the form and manner it requires (you should be prepared to explain in detail your
efforts to retain an attorney). Requests should be made well before the end of the 90-day period mentioned above,
because such requests do not relieve you of the requirement to bring suit within 90 days.

ATTORNEY REFERRAL AND EEOC ASSISTANCE                             --   All Statutes:

You may contact the EEOC representative shown on your Notice if you need help in finding a lawyer or if you have any
questions about your legal rights, including advice on which U.S. District Court can hear your case. If you need to
inspect or obtain a copy of information in EEOC's file on the charge, please request it promptly in writing and provide
your charge number (as shown on your Notice). While EEOC destroys charge files after a certain time, all charge files
are kept for at least 6 months after our last action on the case. Therefore, if you file suit and want to review the charge
file, please make your review request within 6 months of this Notice. (Before filing suit, any request should be
made within the next 90 days.)

                  IF YOU FILE SUIT, PLEASE SEND A COPY OF YOUR COURT COMPLAINT TO THIS OFFICE.
                 Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 15 of 21




Enclosures(s)


cc:
       Stephanie Kaplan
       BLANK ROME
       One Logan Square
       130 N. 18th Street
       Philadelphia, PA 19103
                         Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 16 of 21
EEOC Form 5 (11/09)


                      CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION                                                           Charge Presented To:              Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
             This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                         FEPA
                    Statement and other information before completing this form.
                                                                                                            X   EEOC

                                                  Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                                 and EEOC
                                                                         State or local Agency, if any
Name (indicate Mr., Ms., Mrs.)                                                                                   Home Phone (Incl. Area Code)              Date of Birth

Ms. Atiya DeCora Turner                                                                                              484-274-9141                        02/12/1986
Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code

                   5297 Wayne Ave., Philadelphia, PA 19144

Named is the Employer, Labor Organization, Employment Agency, Apprenticeship Committee, or State or Local Government Agency That I Believe Discriminated
Against Me or Others. (If more than two, list under PARTICULARS below.)
Name                                                                                                              No. Employees, Members        Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Pennsylvania Ballet                                                                                                     50+                       215-587-6942
Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code

100 S. Broad St Ste 2226, Philadelphia, PA 19110

Name                                                                                                             No. Employees, Members       Phone No. (Include Area Code)



Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code




DISCRIMINATION BASED ON (Check appropriate box(es).)                                                                     DATE(S) DISCRIMINATION TOOK PLACE
                                                                                                                              Earliest               Latest

    X     RACE               COLOR            X    SEX                 RELIGION                NATIONAL ORIGIN            Jan. 2020                Sept. 2020
         X       RETALIATION               AGE              DISABILITY                    GENETIC INFORMATION

                       OTHER (Specify)                                                                                                     CONTINUING ACTION

THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):


  Ms. Turner, a black woman, worked for PA Ballet for six months. PA Ballet hired her on January 2, 2020,
  as the Front Desk Receptionist in the PA Ballet reporting to Amber Hineshaw . Ms. Turner continued to
  perform at an exceptional level without any complaints from management related to her job performance.

  Regardless of Ms. Turner’s exceptional performance, PA Ballet allowed Ms. Hineshaw to discriminate
  against Ms. Turner because she is a black woman.

  In less than six weeks after joining PA Ballet, Ms. Hineshaw began to treat Ms. Turner in a hostile and
  discriminatory manner while PA Ballet turned a blind eye to Ms. Hineshaw 's unlawful conduct.
  Specifically, Ms. Hineshaw held Ms. Turner to a higher standard than her counterparts. For example, during
  the George Floyd riots – a tumultuous time for race relations in America – Ms. Hineshaw stated that Ms.
  Turner and another black woman, Jessica Avery, only retained their jobs because they are black.

  Further, around the same time, Ms. Hineshaw also commented that she was “extra thankful” that she had an
  IUD during this time. She expounded upon this, noting that she could not imagine having a child at this
  time.

  Compounding these statements, Ms. Hineshaw noted inquired whether Ms. Turner would be “leaving the
  city,” presumably because of Philadelphia’s large African-American population.

  Also, Ms. Hineshaw created a hostile work environment, and these severe and pervasive comments created
  a hostile working condition for Ms. Turner. Additional comments include:
                 Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 17 of 21
        Ms. Hinsaw stating that she could not imagine explaining the George Floyd riots and protesting to a
        child.

        Noting that Ms. Turner’s pregnancy was higher risk and that Ms. Hineshaw did not want Ms. Turner on
        the job site.

        Ms. Hineshaw promised Ms. Turner a shift and work and then reneged on this promise after Ms.
        Turner and Ms. Hineshaw conversed about Ms. Turner’s childcare situation.

 Ms. Turner told Ms. Hineshaw that her comments were inappropriate and that she should stop. Ms. Turner
 mentioned on multiple occasions that she believed that Ms. Hineshaw treated her differently because she
 had a child.


I want this charge filed with both the EEOC and the State or local Agency, if any. I      NOTARY – When necessary for State and Local Agency Requirements
will advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will
cooperate fully with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their
procedures.                                                                               I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true to
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                    the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                          SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                          SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                          (month, day, year)

           Date                                Charging Party Signature

EEOC Form 5 (11/09)


                      CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION                                                 Charge Presented To:             Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
           This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                    FEPA
                  Statement and other information before completing this form.
                                                                                                    X    EEOC

                                                Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                           and EEOC
                                                                   State or local Agency, if any
THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):
\
                       Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 18 of 21


 Rather than investigating Ms. Turner’s complaint, PA Ballet decided to ignore them by allowing Ms.
 Hineshaw to terminate Ms. Turner in retaliation for her complaints that she believed that she was treated
 differently due to her parental status. Shortly after making her complaints, Ms. Hineshaw escalated her
 hostility towards Ms. Turner.

 Ms. Hineshaw represented that, due to Covid-19, receptionists would not have to return to the site. She
 iterated that their jobs were “secure whether you decide to stay remote or on site this summer.”

 As such, Ms. Turner, understandably reliant on these misrepresentations, delayed her search for childcare. As
 an added note, millions of women experienced unprecedented levels of stress and anxiety last summer as
 Covid-19 foisted additional responsibilities upon them including childcare, teaching, and finding some
 semblance of balance while juggling these new responsibilities on top of other maternal responsibilities. A
 jury of her peers will undoubtedly relate to assurances of job protection and remote work while later being
 mandated, on short notice, to onsite work.

 Ms. Turner worked with her supervisor, Ms. Hineshaw, to address her childcare concerns. On August 18,
 2021, Ms. Tuner again explained her childcare situation to Ms. Hineshaw, delineating that was she was
 waiting to hear from a private school for her five-year-old. Ms. Hineshaw stated that she was flexible and
 happy to work with her availability.

 Ms. Turner then asked whether anything was “going to be different with the limited opening . . . and what is
 the hour expectation?” Ms. Hineshaw responded 29 hours a week. After reminding Ms. Hineshaw to
 complete the necessary paperwork for her child’s school, Ms. Hineshaw finally provided Ms. Turner with the
 form on August 31, 2020.

 Ms. Hineshaw never finalized Ms. Turner’s schedule and she summarily terminated her employment in
 retaliation for making complaints and raising the issue of her childcare. With respect to her schedule, Ms.
 Hineshaw explained that: “I realized I never actually confirmed your schedule with you. We went back and
 forth a little and I filled in the form for your daughter's school, but we didn’t actually set anything in stone.”

 Relying on Ms. Hineshaw’s previous statements of job security and flexibility, Ms. Turner responded and
 stated that she was waiting on her daughter’s assistance, which could take up to 30 days. And that she could
 not come back full time just yet until the school makes its decision regarding assistance.

  Ms. Hineshaw, in a text that displayed anything but flexibility and understanding, asked: “What does that
  mean
I want      for you
       this charge       working
                   filed with          this week?”
                              both the EEOC and the State Ms.
                                                          or localHineshaw
                                                                   Agency, if any.went
                                                                                   I   on  to probe,
                                                                                        NOTARY         immediately
                                                                                               – When necessary             after
                                                                                                                for State and       Ms. Turner
                                                                                                                              Local Agency           raised
                                                                                                                                           Requirements
will advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will cooperate
fully with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their procedures.
                                                                                       I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                 to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                       SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                       SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                       (month, day, year)

          Date                              Charging Party Signature
                Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 19 of 21

mean for you working this week?” Ms. Hineshaw went on to probe, immediately after Ms. Turner raised childcare
concerns, about whether Ms. Turner could work on Saturday. Ms. Turner replied that she could not work Saturday
but that she could work any other day.

Further, Ms. Turner scrambled to find childcare and even offered to work the next available day, which was
Wednesday. Ms. Hineshaw’s response: “If starting work this week was going to be a problem, you should have
told me sooner. I’m heading home now. I’ll get back to you tomorrow.”

The next day, Ms. Hineshaw stated that the Wednesday night shift was covered. Indeed, Ms. Hineshaw displayed
zero “flexibility” towards Ms. Turner. PA Ballet terminated Ms. Turner on September 10, 2020; the very next day.

The PA Ballet remains liable for “sex-plus” discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, and discrimination and
harassment based on race.
               Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 20 of 21



                           U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
                                           Philadelphia District Office
                                       Attornaey Referred Charge Checklist


Your Name (Charging Party’s Attorney’s Name): Andrew Lacy, Jr.

Your e-mail address (Charging Party’s Attorney’s e-mail): andrew.lacy@employment-labor-law.com

Your firm’s name & address: The Lacy Employment Law Firm LLC 2514 W Seybert Street, Philadelphia, PA
19121

Date Submitted:    June 3, 2021                                  EEOC Office Use Only
                                                                 Date Received:
Location of        Pennsylvania Ballet
Alleged            100 S. Broad St Ste 2226, Philadelphia,
Discrimination     PA 19110

Date(s) of         Jan. 2020 - Sept. 2020
Alleged
Discrimination:

Statute/s:           Basis (protected class/es): Race, Sex
                     Issue (alleged discriminatory action/s): Discrimination, Retalation

Charging Party       Name: Atiya Turner
                     E-mail address: atiya62@gmail.com

                     National Origin: Race: Gender: DOB: Black; February 12, 1968

Respondent           Name of Respondent: Pennsylvania Ballet
                     Name of Respondent official who should receive the Charge: Stephanie Kaplan
                     Address of Respondent official: 130 N 18th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103

                     E-mail address of Respondent official: SGKaplan@blankrome.com

Is this an Amended Charge:                                                                         No


If yes, provide: Charge No.

Is this related to a previously filed Charge:                                                      No

If yes, provide: Charge No.
              Case 2:21-cv-05228-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/21 Page 21 of 21


Have you previously filed this matter with EEOC or another agency:              No

If yes, provide name of agency & date of filing:

Prefer Mediation                                                          Yes

Requesting Immediate Issuance of Right to Sue                                   No
