Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/61500741/1/clark-v-heiler-painting-llc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in CLARK v. HEILER PAINTING, LLC (E.D. Pa., 2:21-cv-05062) – CourtListener.com

         Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 1 of 11




                        IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA
                         ________________________________________
                                          :
DEREK CLARK                               :
3107 N. Hemberger Street                  :
Philadelphia, PA 19132                    :
                              Plaintiff   :
       v.                                 :
                                          :     Civil Action No. _______________
HEILER PAINTING, LLC                      :
650 Painter Street, Suite 1               :
Media, PA 19063-3625                      :
                                          :
       and                                :
                                          :
THOMAS HEILER, JR.                        :
11 W. Chester Pike                        :
Ridley Park, PA 19078                     :
                              Defendants :
                         ________________________________________

                                     CIVIL COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Derek Clark, by and through his attorneys, The Derek Smith Law Group, PLLC,

hereby brings this civil action pursuant to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et.

seq., and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (“PHRA”), 43 P.S. § 951, et. seq., and seeks

relief from discrimination, disparate treatment, hostile work environment, and retaliation related

to Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, and its owner Defendant,

Thomas Heiler, Jr. Plaintiff alleges and avers in support thereof:

                                             Parties

       1.      Plaintiff, Derek Clark, is an adult African American / black male individual who

resides at the above captioned address, and at all times relevant, was employed by Heiler

Painting, LLC, and worked under the direct supervision of Thomas Heiler, Jr.
         Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 2 of 11




        2.     Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, is an entity and/or organization duly existing

under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with a registered office at the above

captioned address, and at all times was Plaintiff’s employer. Alternatively, Defendant, Heiler

Painting, LLC, has had an address at 522 Ellis Avenue, 1B, Darby, PA 19023.

        3.     Defendant, Thomas Heiler, Jr., is an adult Caucasian male individual

approximately thirty-three (33) years of age who, at all times relevant, was an owner of

Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, and a supervisor of Plaintiff, and had the authority to make

material decisions over Plaintiff’s employment including the ability to hire, fire, promote,

demote, discipline, and investigate claims of discrimination. Defendant Heiler is the son of

Thomas Heiler, Sr., age sixty-three (63) and the brother of Christopher Heiler, age twenty-five

(25).

        4.     Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, accepted, agreed, adopted, acquiesced, and/or

otherwise was bound by the actions, omissions, and conduct of its owners, managers,

supervisors, employees, and agents including, but not limited to, Defendant, Heiler.

                                     Jurisdiction and Venue

        5.     This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this matter as it involves a Federal

Question, 28 U.S.C. §1331, and the Court maintains supplemental jurisdiction, 28 U.S.C. §1367,

over the Pennsylvania State Law causes of action.

        6.     Venue is appropriate before this Court as all parties reside in the Eastern District

of Pennsylvania and all actions and omissions giving rise to this litigation occurred in the Eastern

District of Pennsylvania (i.e. Berks, Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Lancaster, Lehigh, Montgomery,

Northampton, and Philadelphia).




                                                 2
         Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 3 of 11




       7.      Furthermore, Plaintiff has exhausted administrative remedies by having filed a

timely Charge of Discrimination with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

(“EEOC”) and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”), and Plaintiff having

received a Notice of Right to Sue.

                                       Summary of Facts

       8.      Plaintiff worked for Defendants from April 2013 to July 20, 2020, when he was

wrongfully terminated and replaced by a Caucasian male individual.

       9.      Plaintiff was a productive worker for Defendants that worked his way up from

Painter to Operations Manager before he complained of the owner’s discriminating Caucasian

father, and was subsequently demoted, replaced, and terminated.

       10.     At the time, Plaintiff was promoted, he was told by a longtime Caucasian worker

that Plaintiff was a hard working “N-word”, and this made Plaintiff different from “the rest.”

       11.     Plaintiff complained to Defendant Heiler about this unwelcome comment and

complained there was a general bias or prejudice towards African Americans/blacks, but since

Plaintiff was being promoted, Defendants decided that to resolve the matter, Plaintiff would just

not supervise the employee. No discipline or reprimand was ever issued.

       12.     As Operations Manager, Plaintiff reported directly to the owner Defendant,

Thomas Heiler, Jr. (Caucasian male), who made all material decisions for Defendants.

       13.     Plaintiff had multiple incidents with employees and the Heiler family, in which

race/color was an issue.

       14.     Initially, Plaintiff was assigned crews primarily of minorities.




                                                 3
          Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 4 of 11




        15.     During Plaintiff’s first weeks of supervising, a Hispanic employee Rick Vargo

referred to Plaintiff to other co-workers as an N-word, and those co-workers reported this to

Defendant Heiler.

        16.     As a result, Mr. Vargo had to apologize to Plaintiff and Defendant Heiler told

Plaintiff to dispense great leadership, and accept the apology. No discipline was issued.

        17.     Plaintiff was then passed over for a position he had been promised, a position that

was issued to new Caucasian hire, Sean Davies.

        18.     At a company dinner, Defendant Heiler’s brother, Christopher Heiler, repeatedly

used the N-word and despite Plaintiff’s complaints, nothing was done or said.

        19.     Then in 2019 Defendant Heiler’s father, Thomas Heiler, Sr. (Caucasian male),

began working for Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, and was assigned to Plaintiff’s crew.

        20.     Mr. Heiler, Sr. disapproved of Plaintiff as a supervisor and made discriminatory

and unprofessional comments. At one point, Mr. Heiler, Sr., told Plaintiff “fuck you” and spat in

front of Plaintiff.

        21.     Plaintiff believed these interactions with the Heiler family members were

motivated and were discriminatory, on the basis of race and color.

        22.     After a few more incidents with Mr. Heiler, Sr., Plaintiff complained and asked

that he not be required to work with Mr. Heiler Sr.

        23.     A meeting was held with Plaintiff, Mr. Heiler, Sr., Defendant Heiler, and Sean

Davies (Chief Financial Officer), and as a result Mr. Heiler, Sr., was suspended.

        24.     When Mr. Heiler, Sr., returned from suspension, Plaintiff was demoted.

        25.     Plaintiff went from Operations Manager to Painter.




                                                 4
         Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 5 of 11




       26.     Plaintiff believes and alleges he was demoted, retaliated against, and

discriminated against as a result of his complaints and/or as a result of discrimination.

       27.     Plaintiff suffered a series of injuries that ended up causing Plaintiff difficulty

working, and though Defendants were aware of Plaintiff’s injuries, they took no action to

alleviate his workload. Instead, Defendants continued to give Plaintiff manual labor assignments

in hopes he would quit.

       28.     On or around July 20, 2020, Defendants contacted Plaintiff and said they were

interviewing for his job, which was a surprise as Plaintiff had already been demoted.

       29.     A Caucasian male new hire eventually replaced Plaintiff as Director of

Operations, which Plaintiff alleges is a position that is substantially similar to Operations

Manager but was given a different title to hide the fact that Plaintiff had been demoted and

replaced without evidence of performance issues or disciplinary issues.

       30.     Plaintiff alleges and believes, at all times, he was qualified and capable of doing

the positions he held, including the Chief Financial Officer position to which he applied and the

Director of Operations position.

       31.     Plaintiff was terminated and/or constructively discharged.

       32.     Plaintiff alleges and believes that Defendants wrongly demoted, discriminated

against, and retaliated against Plaintiff on account of his race/color, and/or protected activity.




                                                  5
           Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 6 of 11




                                         COUNT ONE
                        Hostile Work Environment – Race and Color
                       Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et. seq.
                         Plaintiff v. Defendant Heiler Painting, LLC

       33.     Plaintiff incorporates the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth at length herein.

       34.     Defendant Heiler Painting is an employer under 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et. seq as it is

engaged in an industry affecting commerce and has 15 or more employees for each working day

in each of 20 or more calendar weeks, in the current or preceding calendar year.

       35.     Plaintiff is a person and has protected classes as a black (color) and/or African

American (race) individual.

       36.     At all times relevant, Plaintiff was qualified to work for Defendant in any role,

including as the new position Director of Operations, which Plaintiff alleges is a form-over-

function name change to Plaintiff’s former Operations Manager position, to cover-up

Defendants’ discrimination and retaliation against Plaintiff.

       37.     Under 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2. [Section 703](a) it shall be an unlawful employment

practice for an employer – (1) to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise

to discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or

privileges of employment, because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national

origin.”

       38.     Defendants, by and through Mr. Heiler, Sr., and other co-workers and employees,

made remarks and treated Plaintiff disparately in comparison to/with similarly situated

individuals outside Plaintiff’s protected classes.

       39.     Defendants’ actions and comments were motivated by discriminatory animus.

       40.     At all times, these actions and comments were unwelcome.




                                                     6
          Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 7 of 11




         41.   The Defendants’ comments and conduct had the intent or effect of creating an

unreasonably hostile work environment for Plaintiff, which was severe and pervasive, and

motivated by Plaintiff’s protected class/classes.

         42.   Plaintiff complained about the hostile work environment including being bullied,

targeted, having her accent ridiculed, and other types of harassing behaviors but no action was

taken.

         43.   As a direct and proximate result of Defendant Heiler Painting’s discrimination,

Plaintiff has suffered loss of wages, including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss of

amenities of employment, out-of-pocket expenses, emotional damages, pain and suffering,

alienation, loss of confidence, loss of reputation, loss of enjoyment of life’s pleasures, and other

similar damages and harms, all to Plaintiff’s great detriment.

         44.   Defendant’s actions were willful and wanton and thus require the imposition of

Punitive Damages.

         45.   Plaintiff requests equitable relief.

         46.   Alternatively, as Defendant’s comments, conduct, and/or actions were motivated

in part by discrimination, Plaintiff is entitled to a charge for Mixed-Motive discrimination for

which she is entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees.

         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Derek Clark, hereby demands judgment in his favor and against

Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, for any and all damages deemed necessary and just by the

Court.




                                                    7
         Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 8 of 11




                                            COUNT TWO
                             Disparate Treatment – Race and Color
                        Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et. seq.
                               Plaintiff v. Defendant Painting, LLC

       47.     Plaintiff incorporates the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth at length herein.

       48.     Defendants discriminated against and disparately treated Plaintiff, by and through

its officers, managers, and supervisors, as follows:

          a.   wrongful termination or constructive discharge;

          b.   disparate treatment;

          c.   denying Plaintiff hire/promotion;

          d.   demoting Plaintiff;

          e.   refusing to investigate or discipline individuals for having used wrongful and

               discriminatory comments; and,

          f.   other treatment that was wrongful and disparate on the basis of race and color.

       49.     As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ discrimination and disparate

treatment, Plaintiff has suffered loss of wages, including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss

of amenities of employment, out-of-pocket expenses, emotional damages, pain and suffering,

alienation, loss of confidence, loss of reputation, and other similar damages and harms, all to

Plaintiff’s great detriment.

       50.     Defendants’ actions were willful and wanton and thus require the imposition of

Punitive Damages.

       51.     Alternatively, as Defendants considered Plaintiff’s protected classes in the

foregoing discrimination and conduct, Plaintiff is entitled to a charge for mixed-motive

discrimination, which entitles Plaintiff to an award of Attorney’s fees.




                                                 8
          Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 9 of 11




         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Derek Clark, hereby demands judgment in his favor and against

Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, for any and all damages deemed necessary and just by the

Court.

                                         COUNT THREE
                                            Retaliation
                        Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et. seq.
                          Plaintiff v. Defendant Heiler Painting, LLC

         52.    Plaintiff incorporates the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth at length herein.

         53.    Plaintiff engaged in protected activity when he complained about wrongful and

discriminatory comments of Defendants’ employees, harassment, and other discriminatory

conduct, including but not limited to Mr. Heiler, Sr.’s comments and perceived conduct.

         54.    Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff as follows:

           a.   wrongful termination or constructive discharge;

           b.   disparate treatment;

           c.   denying Plaintiff hire/promotion;

           d.   demoting Plaintiff;

           e.   refusing to investigate or discipline individuals for having used wrongful and

                discriminatory comments; and,

           f.   other treatment that was wrongful and disparate on the basis of race and color.

         55.    Defendants’ foregoing negative and adverse actions and treatment were

temporally proximate to Plaintiff’s protected activity such that they are unusually suggestive of a

retaliation and thus no further evidence is required of retaliation.

         56.    Alternatively, evidence exists to show Defendants’ foregoing negative and

adverse treatment and conduct was causally related to the protected activity, and thus retaliatory.




                                                  9
             Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 10 of 11




         57.     As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ retaliation, Plaintiff has suffered

loss of wages, including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss of amenities of employment and

out of pocket expenses, emotional damages, embarrassment, humiliation, loss of reputation, and

other similar damages, all to Plaintiff’s great detriment.

         58.     Defendants’ actions were willful and wanton and thus require the imposition of

Punitive Damages.

         59.     Alternatively,   Defendants’     actions    were   motivated    by    the   foregoing

discrimination and thus Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under the mixed-motive theory of

liability.

         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Derek Clark, hereby demands judgment in his favor and against

Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, for any and all damages deemed necessary and just by the

Court.


                                     COUNT FOUR
     Discrimination, Disparate Treatment, Hostile Work Environment, and Retaliation
                 Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. § 951, et. seq.
                                  Plaintiff v. Defendants

         60.     Plaintiff incorporates the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth at length herein.

         61.     Defendant Heiler Painting, LLC is an employer under the Pennsylvania Human

Relations Act as it employs citizens of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and also because

Defendant resides in the Commonwealth.

         62.     Defendant Thomas Heiler, Jr., is an employer under the Pennsylvania Human

Relations Act as he compelled, coerced, and/or caused the violations of the Act alleged herein.

         63.     Plaintiff is protected under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act as he is an

employee of an employer and has protected classes in his race and color.




                                                   10
             Case 2:21-cv-05062-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/17/21 Page 11 of 11




        64.      Defendants subjected Plaintiff to a harassing, hostile work environment,

disparately treated Plaintiff, and retaliated against Plaintiff, all on the basis of his protected

classes as alleged supra.

        65.      As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ discrimination, harassment, and

retaliation, Plaintiff has suffered loss of wages, including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss

of amenities of employment and out of pocket expenses, emotional damages, pain and suffering,

alienation, loss of confidence, loss of reputation, and other similar damages and harms, all to

Plaintiff’s great detriment.

        66.      Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act.

        67.      Alternatively,   Defendants’    actions   were   motivated     by   the   foregoing

discrimination and thus Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under the mixed-motive theory of

liability.

        WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Derek Clark, hereby demands judgment in his favor and against

Defendant, Heiler Painting, LLC, and Defendant, Thomas Heiler, Jr., for any and all damages

deemed necessary and just by the Court.


                                                DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC




                                                _______________________________
                                                CHRISTOPHER J. DELGAIZO, ESQUIRE
                                                Attorney for Plaintiff

                                                Attorney I.D. No. 200594
                                                1835 Market Street, Suite 2950
                                                Philadelphia, PA 19103
                                                T: 215-391-4790
                                                Email: Chris@dereksmithlaw.com
Date: November 17, 2021



                                                  11
