Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/60703423/1/mcclay-v-compass-group-usa-inc-dba-unidine/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in MCCLAY v. COMPASS GROUP USA, INC. D/B/A UNIDINE (E.D. Pa., 2:21-cv-04903) – CourtListener.com

            Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 1 of 40




                        IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                     FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


Kimberly Ann McClay and                        )
Martin Lespier,                                )
                                               )       CIVIL ACTION NO.:
       Plaintiffs,                             )
                                               )
                v.                             )
                                               )       COMPLAINT AND JURY DEMAND
Compass Group USA, Inc. d/b/a ;                )
Unidine                                        )
Jenner’s Pond, Inc.; and Simpson               )
Senior Services                                )
                                               )
       Defendants.                             )



                                          COMPLAINT

       Plaintiffs, Kimberly Ann McClay and Martin Lespier, by and through their undersigned

counsel, The Lacy Employment Law Firm LLC, hereby file this Complaint against Defendants

and state as follows:

                     PROCEDURAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

       1.       All the allegations contained in the foregoing paragraphs of this Complaint are

incorporated by reference as if set forth herein at length.

       2.       Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b)(2) because a

substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred within this District.

       3.       On or about May 12, 2021, Plaintiff Lespier dual-filed a charge with the

Philadelphia office of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the
             Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 2 of 40




Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission alleging age, and race discrimination as well as

retaliation. See EEOC Charge of Discrimination, attached as Exhibit 1.

        4.       On or about July 28, 2021, Plaintiff McClay dual-filed a charge with the

Philadelphia office of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission alleging age, sex and disability discrimination as

well as retaliation.1 See EEOC Charge of Discrimination. Id.

        5.       The EEOC issued a Right to Sue Letters (“Right to Sue”) and Plaintiffs timely

filed the above-captioned action on or before 90 days from receipt of the Right to Sue that the

EEOC issued.

        6.       Plaintiffs have fully complied with all administrative prerequisites for the

commencement of this action.

                                    JURISDICTION AND PARTIES

        1.       Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b) and 42 U.S.C.

§2000(e)-5(f).

        2.         This District Court has jurisdiction over Count I (ADEA) pursuant to 29. U.S.C.

§ 621, et seq.

        3.       This District Court has jurisdiction over Count II (ADA) pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §

12101, et seq.

        4.       This District Court has jurisdiction over Count III (FMLA) pursuant to 29 CFR §

825.100, et seq.

        5.       This District Court has jurisdiction over Count IV (PHRA) pursuant to pendent

supplemental jurisdiction.1


1
 It has been less than one year since Plaintiffsdual-filed their Charge of Discrimination as a Complaint with the
Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission for Defendant’s violations of the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act,


                                                        2
             Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 3 of 40




        6.       Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b)(2) because a

substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claim occurred within this District.

        7.        Ms. McClay is a white disabled woman over the age of 40 years old who worked,

at all relevant times, for Jenner's Pond, a continuing care retirement community (CCRC) in

Chester County, Pennsylvania.

        8.       Mr. Lespier is a hispanic man over the age of 40 years old who worked, at all

relevant times, for Jenner's Pond.

        9.       Simpson Senior Services is a company headquartered at, upon information and

belief, 150 Monument Rd Ste 105, Bala Cynwyd, PA 19004. Simpson Senior Services acquired

Jenner’s Pond in 2002. Jenner’s Pond, Inc. (“Jenner’s Pond”) is, upon information and belief, a

subsidiary of Simpson Senior Services and Plaintiffs joint employer at all relevant times.

        10.      Unidine Lifestyles was established in 2001 and acquired by the Compass Group

in 2017. Unidine Lifestyles/Compass Group (“Unidine”) is contracted by Simpson Senior

Services as a food service provider. Unidine at all relevant times employed Plaintiffs. Upon

information and belief, Unidine is located at 2400 Yorkmont Rd, Charlotte NC, 28217.

        11.      Jenner’s Pond, Inc. is located, upon information and belief, at 2000 Greenbriar

Lane, West Grove, PA 19390, is a subsidiary of Simpson Senior Services and at all relevant

times employed Plaintiffs.

        12.      Both Simpson Senior Services and Unidine Lifestyles/Compass Group “regularly

conduct business” at Jenner’s Pond in Chester County, Pennsylvania. Jenner’s Pond is located at

2000 Greenbriar Ln West Grove, PA, 19390.


                                       FACTUAL BACKGROUND

43 P.S. § 951, et seq. (“PHRA”). Plaintiffs will seek to amend their Complaint in this matter to add their PHRA
claims once they have exhausted their administrative remedy with respect to those claims.


                                                         3
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 4 of 40




       13.     Ms. McClay worked at Jenner’s Pond for approximately twenty years. She was

hired on April 13, 2000. In her last position, General Manager for Hospitality, Ms. McClay's job

duties included overseeing Dining in all areas–Independent Living, Assisted Living and Skilled

Nursing. She was also in charge of Housekeeping from 2007 until 2021, when Simpson Senior

Services requested a contract change, adding Housekeeping to her responsibilities. Ms. McClay

received numerous accolades for her dedication, loyalty and outstanding performance.

       14.     Until February 2021, Ms. McClay had not received any complaints from

management, or clients, related to her job performance. In fact, Ms. McClay was consistently

praised for her performance, receiving merit-based salary increases each year. In addition to

internal commodation, Ms. McClay’s exceptional performance was recognized by leadership of

other CCRCs.

       15.     Mr. Lespier started working at Jenner’s Pond starting in 1998. Mr. Lespier was an

executive chef, responsible for all food operations in the Alison Ruston Preston Buildings at

Jenner's Pond. Ms. McClay was Mr. Lespier’s supervisor.

       16.     Mr. Lespier excelled during his time with Defendants. He consistently kept food

and labor costs in line with budgets and routinely received positive remarks from clients and

management regarding his performance.

       17.     In or around December 2018, Jenner’s Pond introduced Douglass Flasher as the

new COO of Simpson Senior. He was empowered to make tangible employment decisions

regarding Jenner’s Pond staff. This included Plaintiffs. Mr. Flasher’s employment decisions, as

COO, directly impacted and had an adverse affect on Plaintiffs before and after his appointment

to Jenner’s Pond interim executive director of Jenner’s Pond.

       18.     Both Ms. McClay and Mr. Lespier began feeling targeted professionally and



                                                4
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 5 of 40




personally in early 2019. The new Chief Operating Officer for Simpson Senior Services at

Jenner’s Pond, Douglas Flasher, was the source of the humiliation and denigrating remarks.

Management was verbally informed of the older employees' concerns in 2019. A consummate

professional, Ms. McClay, followed Compass policy to address the toxic environment that

decreased staff, and resident, satisfaction.

       19.     In 2019, Mr. Flasher began to express displeasure with Plaintiffs and created a

hostile work environment based on severe and pervasive disparaging comments. Plaintiff’s

verbally reported their concerns regarding this environment to Julian Hutton, Regional Director

of Operations, Unidine Lifestyles.

       20.     On October 12, 2019, Mr. Lespier was moved to another building and his job was

taken over by his assistant. There was no reason given for this transfer. Rather, Mr. Lespier was

moved to embarrass and degrade Mr. Lespier as well as to usher in his forced resignation. This

transfer was indeed a demotion. All executive chefs worked at the largest buildings within

Jenner’s Pond. Mr. Lespier’s new building, Ruston, however was not one of the larger buildings

and had lower food quality. He was moved to this lesser role because of his age.

       21.     Mr. Lespier was also told that he would not be receiving his annual raise in or

about this time. Mr. Lespier previously received a raise every year. But, given that his raise was

already slated in the budget, Mr. Lespier did receive his raise.

       22.     Doug Flasher made the decision to transfer Mr. Lespier. But he directed Unidine

to deliver the news and inform Mr. Lespier of this adverse employment decision.

       23.     At the January 14, 2020 Dining Committee Meeting, residents complained to Mr.

Flasher about what they perceived as a decline in dining services, especially after Mr. Lespier

was reassigned to an inferior position, and replaced by a younger Chef.




                                                  5
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 6 of 40




       24.     Mr. Flasher publicly humiliated Ms. McClay at this meeting, in effect holding her

responsible for the changes. In fact, it was Mr. Flasher who contrived to remove Mr. Lespier

through Ms. McClay’s supervisor, Matt Groux, at Unidine Lifestyles. Compass Human

Resources escalated Ms. McClay’s complaint about Mr. Flasher to the Regional Vice President,

Eugene Hood, and brought it to the attention of Unidine Area President, Jack Silk. However, Mr.

Flasher’s behavior towards the older employees did not change.

       25.     Residents at Jenner’s Pond began to voice dissatisfaction regarding Mr. Flasher’s

leadership and direction. Ms. McClay noted that she felt that she could not lie to her residents

and that Mr. Flasher aimed to terminate her contract and employment.

       26.     Relevant email:




       27.     Relevant excerpt:




       28.     Mr. Hutton further noted Mr. Flasher’s behavior to Plaintiffs, who were the only

Unidine employees that worked at Jenner’s Pond.

       29.     Relevant email:




                                                 6
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 7 of 40




       30.       Relevant excerpt:




       31.       Another excerpt:




       32.       Ms. McClay was told that her concerns regarding the hostile work environment

and Mr. Flasher’s targeting of her and Mr. Lespier would be addressed. But she never received

any confirmation that Unidine reached out to its joint employer to have this conversation or take

corrective action.

       33.       In July 2020, Mr. Flasher assumed the role of interim executive director of

Jenner’s Pond.

       34.       After Mr. Lespier’s banishment to a new position, he was eventually informed

that Mr. Flasher wanted Mr. Lespier to resign from his position. Matt Groux told Mr. Lespier

that he needed to resign by December 2020. He was not given any legitimate business reason for

his termination.



                                                  7
            Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 8 of 40




       35.      After 23 years of serving the Jenner’s Pond community, Mr. Lespier resigned at

the end of 2020. Both he and Ms. McClay felt that Mr. Flasher was attempting to create a work

environment so hostile that their positions became untenable, forcing the resignation of Mr.

Lespier. He had no other choice but to resign. Mr. Flasher made clear to other employees that if

Mr. Lespier did not resign, Mr. Flasher would fire him.

       36.      Mr. Flasher endeavored to frame Mr. Lespier’s termination as a retirement, which

evidences age discrimination. He believed that Mr. Lespier was now too old for the job and that

retirement was the preferable means to have Mr. Lespier ousted. Instead, rather than giving Mr.

Flasher this satisfaction and allowing him to frame the termination in such a way, Mr. Lespier

resigned.

       37.      Mr. Lespier was replaced by Lance Powers, a forty-year old male who the

Defendants paid $14,000 less than Mr. Lespier.

       38.      Following his termination, and because of the discrimination/harassment, Mr.

Lespier suffered from emotional distress, which caused physical manifestations. He developed

headaches and problems sleeping.

       39.      In or around November 12, 2020, Ms. McClay slipped and fell while attempting

to enter the building. She endeavored to persevere through it without requesting time off work.

However, the pain and injury eventually became too much. A worker’s compensation file was

opened in our around that date. Jenner’s Pond, Inc. was listed at Ms. McClay’s employer on that

file, which was verified by her employer, Jenner’s Pond, Inc.

       40.      On February 8, 2021, Douglas Flasher requested a meeting with Matt Groux and

Eugene Hood. On their way to the meeting, Messrs. Groux and Hood overheard a phone

conversation in which Ms. McClay learned that surgery was recommended to treat her back pain.




                                                 8
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 9 of 40




After the meeting, they informed Ms. McClay that she was immediately placed on administrative

leave during an investigation of theft. She was asked to leave, and locked out of Jenner’s Pond

email. She did not take any of her belongings and none of them were returned.

       41.      On or around February 12, 2021, Ms. McClay’s primary care provider, Julia

Kasper, submitted FMLA paperwork to Unidine/Compass. The allegation of theft was

determined to be unfounded.

       42.     On or around March 15, 2021, Matt Groux informed Ms. McClay that due to the

audit and the fact that she was on leave for three months following her accident, she would be

relieved of her duties at Jenner’s Pond due to Jenner’s Pond’s lack of confidence in her ability to

lead. She was informed that her previous position would be filled.

       43.     On March 16, 2021, Mr. Groux formally emailed Ms. McClay and summarized

their previous conversation.




       44.     Mr. Groux, a Unidine employee, neglected to mention that he and Doug Flasher

overheard Ms. McClay on the phone with her doctor on February 8, 2021. And, immediately



                                                 9
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 10 of 40




after, they launched an audit. This was retaliatory and discriminatory.

        45.     Specifically, Matt Groux and Gene Hood came to Jenner’s Pond for a last minute

meeting with Doug Flasher. When they arrived at Ms. McClay’s office, she was on the phone

with her doctor. Ms. McClay relayed to them that she would need surgery. In apparent shock,

Mr. Groux and Mr. Hood, in more of a statement than a question, said, “you’re not okay.” They

then left for their meeting with Mr. Flasher. Ms. McClay was placed on administrative leave

four hours later.

        46.     On March 24, 2021, Ms. McClay was informed that she would resume work at a

level below her proven professionalism when returning from medical leave.

        47.     Ms. McClay did not have clear guidance on her employment options with

Simpson Senior Services at Jenner’s Pond or Unidine Lifestyles/Compass.

        48.     Once admired and respected throughout the industry, Jenner’s Pond became an

increasingly hostile workplace, targeting older employees.

        49.     Plaintiffs have suffered a number of damages including loss of identity, lowered

self esteem, future uncertainty, anxiety, stress, physical manifestations, sleeplessness, headaches,

increased blood pressure, damage to their professional reputations, and hindrance of future job

prospects.

                                     JOINT EMPLOYERS

        50.     Jenner’s Pond, Simpson Senior Services, and Unidine were Plaintiffs’ joint

employers.

        51.     Simpson Senior Services, upon information and belief, is Jenner’s Pond’s parent

company. Simpson Senior Services shares and shared a common nucleus of executive

employees with Jenner’s Pond, which included Douglas Flasher. Because both companies




                                                10
        Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 11 of 40




shared a common nucleus of executives with the power to take and did not tangible employment

actions against Plaintiffs, Simpson Senior Services is liable for discrimination/federal

employment law violations, as well as Jenner’s Pond.

       52.     Plaintiffs held salaried positions and reported to work pursuant to Jenner’s Pond’s

schedule. They both had to adhere to Jenner’s Pond’s policies.

       53.     Jenner’s Ponds provided all tools and materials needed to perform the work. This

included training manuals, cooking equipment, and client workstations. Unidine also provided its

own policies and procedures to Plaintiffs.

       54.     Plaintiffs at all relevant times worked at Jenner’s Pond. Ms. McClay was

provided two offices there. And performed all work on site. Mr. Lespier’s kitchen station was

also located at Jenner’s Pond.

       55.     Unidine acted as a staffing agency, which is a common scenario for joint

employers. Unidine employed Plaintiffs and provided them as staff for Jenner’s Pond. Unidine

had the power to hire, fire, discipline, and implement tangible employment actions. Unidine

contracted with Jenner’s Pond to provide Plaintiffs as their employees. Both Plaintiffs worked at

Jenner’s Pond for over 20 years. This duration sufficiently evidences that both Unidine and

Jenner’s Pond employed Plaintiffs.

       56.     Jenner’s Pond also expected Plaintiffs to be present during all of Jenner’s Pond’s

posted hours for employees.

       57.     Plaintiffs did not seek any other employment or jobs with other companies as

independent contractors during their time with Defendants.

       58.     Unidine paid and provided Plaintiffs with benefits.

                                        COUNT I
               Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29. U.S.C. § 621, et seq.


                                                 11
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 12 of 40




                           Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation
                                    (Plaintiffs v. Defendants)

        59.      Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth herein

in their entirety.

        60.      Based on the foregoing, Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices in

violation of the ADEA.

        61.      Plaintiffs are and were at the time of their demotions, adverse employment

actions, and/or terminations, over forty years of age, and individuals within the class protected

by the ADEA.

        62.      In discriminating against and harassing Plaintiffs because of Plaintiffs’ age,

Defendants violated the ADEA.

        63.      Defendants retaliated against Plaintiffs after Ms. McClay participated in protected

activity and informed her superiors about the discrimination and harassment that occurred within

Jenner’s Pond against Plaintiffs.

        64.      Defendants created a severe and/or pervasive work environment, which altered

Plaintiffs’ working conditions. As such, Defendants created a hostile work environment.

        65.      Defendants are responsible, under a theory of respondeat superior, for the

harassing actions of its executive team and other supervisors.

        66.      Defendants’ violations were intentional and willful.

        67.      Liquidated damages are warranted given Defendants’ willful violation of the

ADEA.

        68.      As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ unlawful employment practices,

Plaintiffs suffered damages and have incurred attorney’s fees and costs.


                                             COUNT II


                                                 12
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 13 of 40




                        Disability Discrimination in Violation of the ADA
                           Discrimination, Harassment, and Retalation
                                     (McClay v. Defendants)

       69.     Plaintiff Kimberly McClay, suffered from qualifying health conditions under the

ADA that affected her ability at certain times to perform daily life activities.

       70.     Each defendant was, at all times, an employer with more than 15 employees and

subject to the ADA.

       71.     Ms. McClay’s disability is recognized as a disability under the ADA.

       72.     Ms. McClay was otherwise qualified to perform the essential functions of her job

with or without reasonable accommodation.

       73.     Ms. McClay informed Defendants’ managers/supervisors of her serious medical

conditions.   And she also informed them of the need for medical treatment and/or other

accommodations.

       74.     Despite Ms. McClay’s health conditions and limitations, she was still able to

perform the duties of her job with or without a reasonable accommodation.

       75.     Ms. McClay requested a reasonable accommodation for her above-mentioned

disabilities. Her doctor submitted information about her disability and need for accommodation

on   2/12/2021     to    Unidine    Lifestyles/Compass      Human      Resources.   Both   Unidine

Lifestyles/Compass Human Resource and Simpson Senior Services management informed Ms.

McClay that her request for reasonable accommodation was under consideration. Defendants,

however, demoted Ms. McClay instead.

       76.     Defendant’s actions in subjecting Ms. McClay to discrimination based on her

actual and/or perceived disabilities and/or record of impairment, and retaliating against her for

requesting a reasonable accommodation for Plaintiff’s disabilities.




                                                  13
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 14 of 40




        77.     Defendants retaliated against Ms. McClay by launching an investigation regarding

her performance after they overheard a conversation in which Ms. McClay expressed that she

was still injured from her fall and that a disability developed because of it. They levied this

adverse employment action as a means of potentially terminating her from the company and

otherwise altering her job responsibilities and station.

        78.     As a direct result of unlawful, discriminatory, and retaliatory employment

practices in violation of the ADA of which Defendant engaged, Ms. McClay sustained

permanent and irreparable harm, which caused loss of earnings, plus the value of certain

benefits, loss of future earning power, back pay, front pay and interests.


                                             COUNT III
                                           FMLA Violation
                                              Retaliation
                                         (McClay v. Defendants)

        79.     Plaintiff Kimberly McClay, incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as

if set forth herein in their entirety.

        80.     Among the substantive rights granted by the FMLA to eligible employees is the

right following leave to be restored by the employer to the position of employment held by the

employee when the leave commenced or to an equivalent position. 29 U.S.C. § 2614(a)(1).

        81.     The FMLA further prohibits discrimination or retaliation against an employee for

exercising her FMLA rights or for opposing any practice made unlawful by the FMLA. 29

U.S.C. § 2615(a)(1).

        82.     The actions of Defendants in retaliating against Ms. McClay for exercising her

right to utilize FMLA, and interfering with her right to take FMLA leave, as described herein,

constitutes a violation of the FMLA.




                                                   14
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 15 of 40




        83.     After indicating that she was still injured, with the obvious implication that she

may need time off work, Defendants removed her from her work responsibilities and drummed

up an investigation against her. Placing her on administrative leave was an adverse employment

action that was severely detrimental to her career and professional reputation.

        84.     Defendants also removed Plaintiff from her previous job position under the

pretext of them conducting an investigatory audit. This occurred just months after Plaintiff

applied for FMLA leave.

        85.     Defendants’ actions were willful, malicious, wanton, in bad faith and in reckless

disregard of Ms. McClay’s rights.

        86.     As a direct result of the willful, wanton, reckless, careless, and negligent acts of

the Defendants, Ms. McClay is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and

monetary damages as a result of Defendants’ discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until

the Court grants the relief requested.


                                           COUNT IV
                        Public Policy - Workers Compensation Retaliation
                                      (McClay v. Defendants)

        87.     Plaintiff Kimberly McClay, incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as

if set forth herein in their entirety.

        88.     Defendant's retaliatory acts violated public policy.

        89.     In Shick v. Shirley, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court recognized that there are

certain types of protected activity for which Pennsylvania public policy makes illegal. This

includes retaliating against an employee for seeking worker’s compensation.

        90.     Plaintiff applied for worker’s compensation benefits.




                                                 15
         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 16 of 40




        91.      Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff after Plaintiff filed for worker’s

compensation benefits.

        92.      There is a temporal proximity between the attempt to secure unemployment

benefits and the retaliation in this case.

        93.      Courts have found sufficient temporal proximity in support of a retaliation claim

in cases where years have passed between the protected activity and retaliatory conduct. See

Robinson v. S.E. Pa. Transp. Auth., Red Arrow, 982 F.2d 892, 894 (3d Cir. 1993) (“Although

almost two years passed between these events and Robinson's termination from employment, we

cannot say the trial judge was clearly erroneous in including these events in his determination

that retaliation occurred.”).

                                      PRAYER FOR RELIEF

        WHEREFORE, Plaintiffs seek damages and legal and equitable relief in connection with

Defendants’ improper conduct, and specifically prays that the Court grant the following relief to

Plaintiff by:

              a) Enjoining and permanently retraining the violations alleged herein;

              b) Entering judgment against the Defendants and in favor of the Plaintiffs in an

                 amount to be determined;

              c) Awarding compensatory damages to make Plaintiffs whole for all lost earnings,

                 earning capacity and benefits, past and future, which Plaintiffs have suffered or

                 may suffer as a result of Defendants’ improper conduct;

              d) Awarding compensatory damages to Plaintiffs for past and future pain and

                 suffering, emotional upset, mental anguish, humiliation, and loss of life’s




                                                   16
        Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 17 of 40




              pleasure, which Plaintiffs have suffered or may suffer as a result of Defendants’

              improper conduct;

          e) Awarding punitive damages to Plaintiffs;

          f) Awarding Plaintiffs such other damages as are appropriate under Title VII,

              Section 1983, the PHRA, and the PFPO;

          g) Awarding Plaintiffs the costs of suit, expert fees and other disbursements, and

              reasonable attorney’s fees; and,

          h) Granting such other and further relief as this Court may deem just, proper, or

              equitable including other equitable and injunctive relief providing restitution for

              past violations and preventing future violations.




Respectfully submitted,


                                                            /s/ Andrew Lacy, Jr.
Dated: November 5, 2021                                     Andrew Lacy, Jr. Esq.
                                                            THE LACY EMPLOYMENT
                                                            LAW FIRM LLC
                                                            2514 W Seybert Street
                                                            Philadelphia, PA
                                                            (t) 412-301-3908
                                                            andrew.lacy@employment-labor-law
                                                            .com

                                                            Counsel for Plaintiffs




                                                 17
Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 18 of 40




                     Exhibit 1
                        Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 19 of 40
EEOC Form 5 (11/09)


                      CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION                                                             Charge Presented To:              Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
              This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                            FEPA                       530-2021-04382
                     Statement and other information before completing this form.

                                                                                                               X EEOC
                                                    Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                                   and EEOC
                                                                           State or local Agency, if any
Name (indicate Mr., Ms., Mrs.)                                                                                      Home Phone (Incl. Area Code)              Date of Birth

Ms. Kimberly Ann McClay                                                                                            302-287-8655                        12/15/1961

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

1413 Berry Drive, Kennett Square PA. 19348


Named is the Employer, Labor Organization, Employment Agency, Apprenticeship Committee, or State or Local Government Agency That I Believe
Discriminated Against Me or Others. (If more than two, list under PARTICULARS below.)
Name                                                                                                                No. Employees, Members         Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Simpson Senior Services at Jenner's Pond                                                                          ~300                         610-869-6711

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

2000 Greenbrair Lane, West Grove PA 19390

Name                                                                                                                No. Employees, Members         Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Unidine Lifestyles/Compass Group                                                                                  > 500,000                    704-328-6206

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

1000 Washington Street, Suite 510, Boston, MA 02118–2798

DISCRIMINATION BASED ON (Check appropriate box(es).)                                                                        DATE(S) DISCRIMINATION TOOK PLACE
                                                                                                                                  Earliest                Latest
          RACE                 COLOR            X     SEX                 RELIGION                NATIONAL ORIGIN                  2019                     02/08/2021
         X       RETALIATION           X    AGE          X    DISABILITY                   GENETIC INFORMATION

                       OTHER (Specify)                                                                                                X       CONTINUING ACTION

THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):
      Kim McClay, a 59-year old woman, had been working at Jenner’s Pond since April 13, 2000. Currently, Jenner’s Pond is a
 Simpson Senior Services continuing care retirement community (CCRC) under contract with Unidine, a food service provider
 in the Compass Group. Despite providing over twenty-one (21) years of exceptionally professional service, management began
 targeting older employees. Only hours after her supervisors were made aware of Ms. McClay’s disability, she was placed on
 administrative leave during an investigation of theft. Although the allegation of theft was determined to be unfounded, Ms.
 McClay was demoted while on medical leave.

       In her last position, General Manager for Hospitality, Ms. McClay's job duties included overseeing Dining in all
 areas–Independent Living, Assisted Living and Skilled Nursing. She was also in charge of Housekeeping from 2007 until 2021,
 when Simpson Senior Services requested a contract change, adding Housekeeping to her responsibilities. In January 2021, Mr.
 Flasher requested another contract change to eliminate Ms. McClay’s housekeeping responsbilities. Ms. McClay received
 numerous accolades for her dedication, loyalty and outstanding performance. Until February 2021, Ms. McClay had not
 received any complaints from management, or clients, related to her job performance. In fact, Ms. McClay was consistently
 praised for her performance, receiving merit-based salary increases each year. In addition to internal commodation, Ms.
 McClay’s exceptional performance was recognized by leadership of other CCRCs. Once admired and respected throughout the
 industry, Jenner’s Pond became an increasingly hostile workplace, targeting older employees. A consummate professional, Ms.
 McClay followed Compass policy to address the toxic environment that decreased staff, and resident, satisfaction.

                 Kim McClay, and another older employee working at Jenner’s Pond for over 20 years, Martin Lespier, Senior
 Executive Chef, began feeling targeted professionally and personally in early 2019. The new Chief Operating Officer at Jenner’s
 Pond, Douglass Flasher, was the source of the humiliation and denigrating remarks. Management was verbally informed of the
 older employee’s concerns in 2019. At the 1/14/2020 Dining Committee Meeting, residents complained to Mr. Flasher about
                        Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 20 of 40
 what they perceived as a decline in dining services, especially after Mr. Lespier was reassigned, and replaced by a younger Chef.
 Mr. Flasher publicly humiliated Ms. McClay at this meeting, in effect holding her responsible for the changes. In fact, it was Mr.
 Flasher who contrived to remove Mr. Lespier through Ms. McClay’s supervisor, Matt Groux. Compass Human Resources
 escalated Ms. McClay’s complaint about Mr. Flasher to the Regional Vice President, Eugene Hood, and brought to the attention
 of Unidine Area President, Jack Silk. However, Mr. Flasher’s behavior towards the older employees did not change. After 23
 years of serving the Jenner’s Pond community, Mr. Lespier resigned at the end of 2020. Similarly, Ms. McClay felt that Mr.
 Flasher was attempting to create a work environment so hostile that her position would become untenable, forcing her to resign.
 Mr. Flasher treated Ms. McClay differently than other similarly-situated males.

          On 2/8/2021, Douglass Flasher requested a meeting with Matt Groux and Eugene Hood. On their way to the meeting,
 Messrs. Groux and Hood overheard a phone conversation in which Ms. McClay learned that surgery was recommended to treat
 her back pain. After the meeting, they informed Ms. McClay that she was immediately placed on administrative leave during an
 investigation of theft. She was asked to leave, and locked out of Jenner’s Pond email. She did not take any of her belongings. On
 2/12/2021, Ms. McClay’s primary care provider, Julia Kasper, submitted FMLA paperwork to Unidine/Compass. The allegation
 of theft was determined to be unfounded.

          On 3/24/2021, Ms. McClay was informed that she would resume work at a level below her proven professionalism
   when returning from medical leave. It has been indicated, in no unceratin terms, that Ms. McClay will not resume her
   responsibilities at her previous job. Certain facts remains clear, Jenner’s Pond discriminated against Ms. McClay because of
   her age; upper management there and at Unidine failed to protect her from the hostile work environment. When her disability
   became known, Jenner’s Pond and Unidine relied upon a pretextual theft investigation to justify their retaliation of removing
   her as General Manager for Hospitality.


I want this charge filed with both the EEOC and the State or local Agency, if any. I will   NOTARY – When necessary for State and Local Agency Requirements
advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will cooperate fully
with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their procedures.
                                                                                            I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true to the
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                      best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                            SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                            SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                            (month, day, year)

            Date                                Charging Party Signature
                      Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 21 of 40
 EEOC Form 161-B (11/2020)                U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION

                                         NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUE (ISSUED ON REQUEST)
To:     Kimberly McClay                                                               From:    Philadelphia District Office
        1413 Berry Drive                                                                       801 Market Street
        Kennett Square, PA 19348                                                               Suite 1000
                                                                                               Philadelphia, PA 19107




                  On behalf of person(s) aggrieved whose identity is
                  CONFIDENTIAL (29 CFR §1601.7(a))

 EEOC Charge No.                                         EEOC Representative                                           Telephone No.

                                                         Legal Unit,
 530-2021-04383                                          Legal Technician                                              (267) 589-9707
                                                                                   (See also the additional information enclosed with this form.)
NOTICE TO THE PERSON AGGRIEVED:
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), or the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination
Act (GINA): This is your Notice of Right to Sue, issued under Title VII, the ADA or GINA based on the above-numbered charge. It has
been issued at your request. Your lawsuit under Title VII, the ADA or GINA must be filed in a federal or state court WITHIN 90 DAYS
of your receipt of this notice; or your right to sue based on this charge will be lost. (The time limit for filing suit based on a claim under
state law may be different.)

                  More than 180 days have passed since the filing of this charge.
        X         Less than 180 days have passed since the filing of this charge, but I have determined that it is unlikely that the EEOC will
                  be able to complete its administrative processing within 180 days from the filing of this charge.
        X         The EEOC is terminating its processing of this charge.

                  The EEOC will continue to process this charge.

Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA): You may sue under the ADEA at any time from 60 days after the charge was filed until
90 days after you receive notice that we have completed action on the charge. In this regard, the paragraph marked below applies to
your case:
        X         The EEOC is closing your case. Therefore, your lawsuit under the ADEA must be filed in federal or state court WITHIN
                  90 DAYS of your receipt of this Notice. Otherwise, your right to sue based on the above-numbered charge will be lost.

                  The EEOC is continuing its handling of your ADEA case. However, if 60 days have passed since the filing of the charge,
                  you may file suit in federal or state court under the ADEA at this time.

Equal Pay Act (EPA): You already have the right to sue under the EPA (filing an EEOC charge is not required.) EPA suits must be brought
in federal or state court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the alleged EPA underpayment. This means that backpay due for
any violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible.

If you file suit, based on this charge, please send a copy of your court complaint to this office.

                                                                        On behalf of the Commission


                                                                                                                     9/15/21
 Enclosures(s)                                                          Dana R. Hutter,                                       (Date Issued)
                                                                        Deputy Director

 cc:           Giancarlo Pozos                                                        Andrew Lacy, Jr.
               Associate Counsel                                                      THE LACY EMPLOYMENT LAW FIRM LLC
               Compass Group - Legal Dept.                                            2514 W Seybert
               2400 Yorkmont Rd                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19121
               Charlotte, NC 28217


 Enclosure with EEOC
 Form 161-B (11/2020)
                Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 22 of 40
                                INFORMATION RELATED TO FILING SUIT
                              UNDER THE LAWS ENFORCED BY THE EEOC
                    (This information relates to filing suit in Federal or State court under Federal law.
           If you also plan to sue claiming violations of State law, please be aware that time limits and other
                  provisions of State law may be shorter or more limited than those described below.)


                                 Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS         --
                                 the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), or the Age
                                 Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA):

In order to pursue this matter further, you must file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) named in the charge within
90 days of the date you receive this Notice. Therefore, you should keep a record of this date. Once this 90-
day period is over, your right to sue based on the charge referred to in this Notice will be lost. If you intend to
consult an attorney, you should do so promptly. Give your attorney a copy of this Notice, and its envelope or
record of receipt, and tell him or her the date you received it. Furthermore, in order to avoid any question that you
did not act in a timely manner, it is prudent that your suit be filed within 90 days of the date this Notice was
issued to you (as indicated where the Notice is signed) or the date of the postmark or record of receipt, if later.

Your lawsuit may be filed in U.S. District Court or a State court of competent jurisdiction. (Usually, the appropriate
State court is the general civil trial court.) Whether you file in Federal or State court is a matter for you to decide
after talking to your attorney. Filing this Notice is not enough. You must file a "complaint" that contains a short
statement of the facts of your case which shows that you are entitled to relief. Your suit may include any matter
alleged in the charge or, to the extent permitted by court decisions, matters like or related to the matters alleged in
the charge. Generally, suits are brought in the State where the alleged unlawful practice occurred, but in some
cases can be brought where relevant employment records are kept, where the employment would have been, or
where the respondent has its main office. If you have simple questions, you usually can get answers from the
office of the clerk of the court where you are bringing suit, but do not expect that office to write your complaint or
make legal strategy decisions for you.

PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS         --   Equal Pay Act (EPA):

EPA suits must be filed in court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the alleged EPA underpayment: back
pay due for violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible. For
example, if you were underpaid under the EPA for work performed from 7/1/08 to 12/1/08, you should file suit
before 7/1/10 – not 12/1/10 -- in order to recover unpaid wages due for July 2008. This time limit for filing an EPA
suit is separate from the 90-day filing period under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA referred to above.
Therefore, if you also plan to sue under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA, in addition to suing on the EPA
claim, suit must be filed within 90 days of this Notice and within the 2- or 3-year EPA back pay recovery period.

ATTORNEY REPRESENTATION --              Title VII, the ADA or GINA:

If you cannot afford or have been unable to obtain a lawyer to represent you, the U.S. District Court having jurisdiction
in your case may, in limited circumstances, assist you in obtaining a lawyer. Requests for such assistance must be
made to the U.S. District Court in the form and manner it requires (you should be prepared to explain in detail your
efforts to retain an attorney). Requests should be made well before the end of the 90-day period mentioned above,
because such requests do not relieve you of the requirement to bring suit within 90 days.

ATTORNEY REFERRAL AND EEOC ASSISTANCE                    --   All Statutes:

You may contact the EEOC representative shown on your Notice if you need help in finding a lawyer or if you have any
questions about your legal rights, including advice on which U.S. District Court can hear your case. If you need to
inspect or obtain a copy of information in EEOC's file on the charge, please request it promptly in writing and provide
your charge number (as shown on your Notice). While EEOC destroys charge files after a certain time, all charge files
are kept for at least 6 months after our last action on the case. Therefore, if you file suit and want to review the charge
file, please make your review request within 6 months of this Notice. (Before filing suit, any request should be
made within the next 90 days.)

               IF YOU FILE SUIT, PLEASE SEND A COPY OF YOUR COURT COMPLAINT TO THIS OFFICE .
                 Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 23 of 40
NOTICE OF RIGHTS UNDER THE ADA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 (ADAAA): The ADA was
amended, effective January 1, 2009, to broaden the definitions of disability to make it easier for individuals to
be covered under the ADA/ADAAA. A disability is still defined as (1) a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one or more major life activities (actual disability); (2) a record of a substantially limiting
impairment; or (3) being regarded as having a disability. However, these terms are redefined, and it is easier to
be covered under the new law.

If you plan to retain an attorney to assist you with your ADA claim, we recommend that you share this
information with your attorney and suggest that he or she consult the amended regulations and
appendix,        and         other        ADA         related     publications,    available       at
http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/types/disability_regulations.cfm.

“Actual” disability or a “record of” a disability (note: if you are pursuing a failure to accommodate claim
you must meet the standards for either “actual” or “record of” a disability):

     The limitations from the impairment no longer have to be severe or significant for the impairment to
     be considered substantially limiting.
     In addition to activities such as performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing,
     learning, thinking, concentrating, reading, bending, and communicating (more examples at 29 C.F.R. §
     1630.2(i)), “major life activities” now include the operation of major bodily functions, such as:
     functions of the immune system, special sense organs and skin; normal cell growth; and digestive,
     genitourinary, bowel, bladder, neurological, brain, respiratory, circulatory, cardiovascular, endocrine,
     hemic, lymphatic, musculoskeletal, and reproductive functions; or the operation of an individual organ
     within a body system.
     Only one major life activity need be substantially limited.
     With the exception of ordinary eyeglasses or contact lenses, the beneficial effects of “mitigating
     measures” (e.g., hearing aid, prosthesis, medication, therapy, behavioral modifications) are not
     considered in determining if the impairment substantially limits a major life activity.
     An impairment that is “episodic” (e.g., epilepsy, depression, multiple sclerosis) or “in remission” (e.g.,
     cancer) is a disability if it would be substantially limiting when active.
     An impairment may be substantially limiting even though it lasts or is expected to last fewer than six
     months.

“Regarded as” coverage:
    An individual can meet the definition of disability if an employment action was taken because of an
    actual or perceived impairment (e.g., refusal to hire, demotion, placement on involuntary leave,
    termination, exclusion for failure to meet a qualification standard, harassment, or denial of any other term,
    condition, or privilege of employment).
    “Regarded as” coverage under the ADAAA no longer requires that an impairment be substantially
    limiting, or that the employer perceives the impairment to be substantially limiting.
    The employer has a defense against a “regarded as” claim only when the impairment at issue is objectively
    BOTH transitory (lasting or expected to last six months or less) AND minor.
    A person is not able to bring a failure to accommodate claim if the individual is covered only under the
    “regarded as” definition of “disability.”

Note: Although the amended ADA states that the definition of disability “shall be construed broadly” and
“should not demand extensive analysis,” some courts require specificity in the complaint explaining how an
impairment substantially limits a major life activity or what facts indicate the challenged employment action
was because of the impairment. Beyond the initial pleading stage, some courts will require specific evidence
to establish disability. For more information, consult the amended regulations and appendix, as well as
explanatory publications, available at http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/types/disability_regulations.cfm.
                        Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 24 of 40
EEOC Form 5 (11/09)


                      CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION                                                             Charge Presented To:              Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
              This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                            FEPA                       530-2021-04382
                     Statement and other information before completing this form.

                                                                                                               X EEOC
                                                    Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                                   and EEOC
                                                                           State or local Agency, if any
Name (indicate Mr., Ms., Mrs.)                                                                                      Home Phone (Incl. Area Code)              Date of Birth

Ms. Kimberly Ann McClay                                                                                            302-287-8655                        12/15/1961

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

1413 Berry Drive, Kennett Square PA. 19348


Named is the Employer, Labor Organization, Employment Agency, Apprenticeship Committee, or State or Local Government Agency That I Believe
Discriminated Against Me or Others. (If more than two, list under PARTICULARS below.)
Name                                                                                                                No. Employees, Members         Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Simpson Senior Services at Jenner's Pond                                                                          ~300                         610-869-6711

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

2000 Greenbrair Lane, West Grove PA 19390

Name                                                                                                                No. Employees, Members         Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Unidine Lifestyles/Compass Group                                                                                  > 500,000                    704-328-6206

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

1000 Washington Street, Suite 510, Boston, MA 02118–2798

DISCRIMINATION BASED ON (Check appropriate box(es).)                                                                        DATE(S) DISCRIMINATION TOOK PLACE
                                                                                                                                  Earliest                Latest
          RACE                 COLOR            X     SEX                 RELIGION                NATIONAL ORIGIN                  2019                     02/08/2021
         X       RETALIATION           X    AGE          X    DISABILITY                   GENETIC INFORMATION

                       OTHER (Specify)                                                                                                X       CONTINUING ACTION

THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):
      Kim McClay, a 59-year old woman, had been working at Jenner’s Pond since April 13, 2000. Currently, Jenner’s Pond is a
 Simpson Senior Services continuing care retirement community (CCRC) under contract with Unidine, a food service provider
 in the Compass Group. Despite providing over twenty-one (21) years of exceptionally professional service, management began
 targeting older employees. Only hours after her supervisors were made aware of Ms. McClay’s disability, she was placed on
 administrative leave during an investigation of theft. Although the allegation of theft was determined to be unfounded, Ms.
 McClay was demoted while on medical leave.

       In her last position, General Manager for Hospitality, Ms. McClay's job duties included overseeing Dining in all
 areas–Independent Living, Assisted Living and Skilled Nursing. She was also in charge of Housekeeping from 2007 until 2021,
 when Simpson Senior Services requested a contract change, adding Housekeeping to her responsibilities. In January 2021, Mr.
 Flasher requested another contract change to eliminate Ms. McClay’s housekeeping responsbilities. Ms. McClay received
 numerous accolades for her dedication, loyalty and outstanding performance. Until February 2021, Ms. McClay had not
 received any complaints from management, or clients, related to her job performance. In fact, Ms. McClay was consistently
 praised for her performance, receiving merit-based salary increases each year. In addition to internal commodation, Ms.
 McClay’s exceptional performance was recognized by leadership of other CCRCs. Once admired and respected throughout the
 industry, Jenner’s Pond became an increasingly hostile workplace, targeting older employees. A consummate professional, Ms.
 McClay followed Compass policy to address the toxic environment that decreased staff, and resident, satisfaction.

                 Kim McClay, and another older employee working at Jenner’s Pond for over 20 years, Martin Lespier, Senior
 Executive Chef, began feeling targeted professionally and personally in early 2019. The new Chief Operating Officer at Jenner’s
 Pond, Douglass Flasher, was the source of the humiliation and denigrating remarks. Management was verbally informed of the
 older employee’s concerns in 2019. At the 1/14/2020 Dining Committee Meeting, residents complained to Mr. Flasher about
                        Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 25 of 40
 what they perceived as a decline in dining services, especially after Mr. Lespier was reassigned, and replaced by a younger Chef.
 Mr. Flasher publicly humiliated Ms. McClay at this meeting, in effect holding her responsible for the changes. In fact, it was Mr.
 Flasher who contrived to remove Mr. Lespier through Ms. McClay’s supervisor, Matt Groux. Compass Human Resources
 escalated Ms. McClay’s complaint about Mr. Flasher to the Regional Vice President, Eugene Hood, and brought to the attention
 of Unidine Area President, Jack Silk. However, Mr. Flasher’s behavior towards the older employees did not change. After 23
 years of serving the Jenner’s Pond community, Mr. Lespier resigned at the end of 2020. Similarly, Ms. McClay felt that Mr.
 Flasher was attempting to create a work environment so hostile that her position would become untenable, forcing her to resign.
 Mr. Flasher treated Ms. McClay differently than other similarly-situated males.

          On 2/8/2021, Douglass Flasher requested a meeting with Matt Groux and Eugene Hood. On their way to the meeting,
 Messrs. Groux and Hood overheard a phone conversation in which Ms. McClay learned that surgery was recommended to treat
 her back pain. After the meeting, they informed Ms. McClay that she was immediately placed on administrative leave during an
 investigation of theft. She was asked to leave, and locked out of Jenner’s Pond email. She did not take any of her belongings. On
 2/12/2021, Ms. McClay’s primary care provider, Julia Kasper, submitted FMLA paperwork to Unidine/Compass. The allegation
 of theft was determined to be unfounded.

          On 3/24/2021, Ms. McClay was informed that she would resume work at a level below her proven professionalism
   when returning from medical leave. It has been indicated, in no unceratin terms, that Ms. McClay will not resume her
   responsibilities at her previous job. Certain facts remains clear, Jenner’s Pond discriminated against Ms. McClay because of
   her age; upper management there and at Unidine failed to protect her from the hostile work environment. When her disability
   became known, Jenner’s Pond and Unidine relied upon a pretextual theft investigation to justify their retaliation of removing
   her as General Manager for Hospitality.


I want this charge filed with both the EEOC and the State or local Agency, if any. I will   NOTARY – When necessary for State and Local Agency Requirements
advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will cooperate fully
with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their procedures.
                                                                                            I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true to the
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                      best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                            SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                            SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                            (month, day, year)

            Date                                Charging Party Signature
                      Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 26 of 40
 EEOC Form 161-B (11/2020)                U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION

                                         NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUE (ISSUED ON REQUEST)
To:     Kimberly McClay                                                               From:    Philadelphia District Office
        1413 Berry Drive                                                                       801 Market Street
        Kennett Square, PA 19348                                                               Suite 1000
                                                                                               Philadelphia, PA 19107




                  On behalf of person(s) aggrieved whose identity is
                  CONFIDENTIAL (29 CFR §1601.7(a))

 EEOC Charge No.                                         EEOC Representative                                           Telephone No.

                                                         Legal Unit,
 530-2021-04383                                          Legal Technician                                              (267) 589-9707
                                                                                   (See also the additional information enclosed with this form.)
NOTICE TO THE PERSON AGGRIEVED:
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), or the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination
Act (GINA): This is your Notice of Right to Sue, issued under Title VII, the ADA or GINA based on the above-numbered charge. It has
been issued at your request. Your lawsuit under Title VII, the ADA or GINA must be filed in a federal or state court WITHIN 90 DAYS
of your receipt of this notice; or your right to sue based on this charge will be lost. (The time limit for filing suit based on a claim under
state law may be different.)

                  More than 180 days have passed since the filing of this charge.
        X         Less than 180 days have passed since the filing of this charge, but I have determined that it is unlikely that the EEOC will
                  be able to complete its administrative processing within 180 days from the filing of this charge.
        X         The EEOC is terminating its processing of this charge.

                  The EEOC will continue to process this charge.

Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA): You may sue under the ADEA at any time from 60 days after the charge was filed until
90 days after you receive notice that we have completed action on the charge. In this regard, the paragraph marked below applies to
your case:
        X         The EEOC is closing your case. Therefore, your lawsuit under the ADEA must be filed in federal or state court WITHIN
                  90 DAYS of your receipt of this Notice. Otherwise, your right to sue based on the above-numbered charge will be lost.

                  The EEOC is continuing its handling of your ADEA case. However, if 60 days have passed since the filing of the charge,
                  you may file suit in federal or state court under the ADEA at this time.

Equal Pay Act (EPA): You already have the right to sue under the EPA (filing an EEOC charge is not required.) EPA suits must be brought
in federal or state court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the alleged EPA underpayment. This means that backpay due for
any violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible.

If you file suit, based on this charge, please send a copy of your court complaint to this office.

                                                                        On behalf of the Commission


                                                                                                                     9/15/21
 Enclosures(s)                                                          Dana R. Hutter,                                       (Date Issued)
                                                                        Deputy Director

 cc:           Giancarlo Pozos                                                        Andrew Lacy, Jr.
               Associate Counsel                                                      THE LACY EMPLOYMENT LAW FIRM LLC
               Compass Group - Legal Dept.                                            2514 W Seybert
               2400 Yorkmont Rd                                                       Philadelphia, PA 19121
               Charlotte, NC 28217


 Enclosure with EEOC
 Form 161-B (11/2020)
                Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 27 of 40
                                INFORMATION RELATED TO FILING SUIT
                              UNDER THE LAWS ENFORCED BY THE EEOC
                    (This information relates to filing suit in Federal or State court under Federal law.
           If you also plan to sue claiming violations of State law, please be aware that time limits and other
                  provisions of State law may be shorter or more limited than those described below.)


                                 Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS         --
                                 the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), or the Age
                                 Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA):

In order to pursue this matter further, you must file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) named in the charge within
90 days of the date you receive this Notice. Therefore, you should keep a record of this date. Once this 90-
day period is over, your right to sue based on the charge referred to in this Notice will be lost. If you intend to
consult an attorney, you should do so promptly. Give your attorney a copy of this Notice, and its envelope or
record of receipt, and tell him or her the date you received it. Furthermore, in order to avoid any question that you
did not act in a timely manner, it is prudent that your suit be filed within 90 days of the date this Notice was
issued to you (as indicated where the Notice is signed) or the date of the postmark or record of receipt, if later.

Your lawsuit may be filed in U.S. District Court or a State court of competent jurisdiction. (Usually, the appropriate
State court is the general civil trial court.) Whether you file in Federal or State court is a matter for you to decide
after talking to your attorney. Filing this Notice is not enough. You must file a "complaint" that contains a short
statement of the facts of your case which shows that you are entitled to relief. Your suit may include any matter
alleged in the charge or, to the extent permitted by court decisions, matters like or related to the matters alleged in
the charge. Generally, suits are brought in the State where the alleged unlawful practice occurred, but in some
cases can be brought where relevant employment records are kept, where the employment would have been, or
where the respondent has its main office. If you have simple questions, you usually can get answers from the
office of the clerk of the court where you are bringing suit, but do not expect that office to write your complaint or
make legal strategy decisions for you.

PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS         --   Equal Pay Act (EPA):

EPA suits must be filed in court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the alleged EPA underpayment: back
pay due for violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible. For
example, if you were underpaid under the EPA for work performed from 7/1/08 to 12/1/08, you should file suit
before 7/1/10 – not 12/1/10 -- in order to recover unpaid wages due for July 2008. This time limit for filing an EPA
suit is separate from the 90-day filing period under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA referred to above.
Therefore, if you also plan to sue under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA, in addition to suing on the EPA
claim, suit must be filed within 90 days of this Notice and within the 2- or 3-year EPA back pay recovery period.

ATTORNEY REPRESENTATION --              Title VII, the ADA or GINA:

If you cannot afford or have been unable to obtain a lawyer to represent you, the U.S. District Court having jurisdiction
in your case may, in limited circumstances, assist you in obtaining a lawyer. Requests for such assistance must be
made to the U.S. District Court in the form and manner it requires (you should be prepared to explain in detail your
efforts to retain an attorney). Requests should be made well before the end of the 90-day period mentioned above,
because such requests do not relieve you of the requirement to bring suit within 90 days.

ATTORNEY REFERRAL AND EEOC ASSISTANCE                    --   All Statutes:

You may contact the EEOC representative shown on your Notice if you need help in finding a lawyer or if you have any
questions about your legal rights, including advice on which U.S. District Court can hear your case. If you need to
inspect or obtain a copy of information in EEOC's file on the charge, please request it promptly in writing and provide
your charge number (as shown on your Notice). While EEOC destroys charge files after a certain time, all charge files
are kept for at least 6 months after our last action on the case. Therefore, if you file suit and want to review the charge
file, please make your review request within 6 months of this Notice. (Before filing suit, any request should be
made within the next 90 days.)

               IF YOU FILE SUIT, PLEASE SEND A COPY OF YOUR COURT COMPLAINT TO THIS OFFICE .
                 Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 28 of 40
NOTICE OF RIGHTS UNDER THE ADA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 (ADAAA): The ADA was
amended, effective January 1, 2009, to broaden the definitions of disability to make it easier for individuals to
be covered under the ADA/ADAAA. A disability is still defined as (1) a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one or more major life activities (actual disability); (2) a record of a substantially limiting
impairment; or (3) being regarded as having a disability. However, these terms are redefined, and it is easier to
be covered under the new law.

If you plan to retain an attorney to assist you with your ADA claim, we recommend that you share this
information with your attorney and suggest that he or she consult the amended regulations and
appendix,        and         other        ADA         related     publications,    available       at
http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/types/disability_regulations.cfm.

“Actual” disability or a “record of” a disability (note: if you are pursuing a failure to accommodate claim
you must meet the standards for either “actual” or “record of” a disability):

     The limitations from the impairment no longer have to be severe or significant for the impairment to
     be considered substantially limiting.
     In addition to activities such as performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing,
     learning, thinking, concentrating, reading, bending, and communicating (more examples at 29 C.F.R. §
     1630.2(i)), “major life activities” now include the operation of major bodily functions, such as:
     functions of the immune system, special sense organs and skin; normal cell growth; and digestive,
     genitourinary, bowel, bladder, neurological, brain, respiratory, circulatory, cardiovascular, endocrine,
     hemic, lymphatic, musculoskeletal, and reproductive functions; or the operation of an individual organ
     within a body system.
     Only one major life activity need be substantially limited.
     With the exception of ordinary eyeglasses or contact lenses, the beneficial effects of “mitigating
     measures” (e.g., hearing aid, prosthesis, medication, therapy, behavioral modifications) are not
     considered in determining if the impairment substantially limits a major life activity.
     An impairment that is “episodic” (e.g., epilepsy, depression, multiple sclerosis) or “in remission” (e.g.,
     cancer) is a disability if it would be substantially limiting when active.
     An impairment may be substantially limiting even though it lasts or is expected to last fewer than six
     months.

“Regarded as” coverage:
    An individual can meet the definition of disability if an employment action was taken because of an
    actual or perceived impairment (e.g., refusal to hire, demotion, placement on involuntary leave,
    termination, exclusion for failure to meet a qualification standard, harassment, or denial of any other term,
    condition, or privilege of employment).
    “Regarded as” coverage under the ADAAA no longer requires that an impairment be substantially
    limiting, or that the employer perceives the impairment to be substantially limiting.
    The employer has a defense against a “regarded as” claim only when the impairment at issue is objectively
    BOTH transitory (lasting or expected to last six months or less) AND minor.
    A person is not able to bring a failure to accommodate claim if the individual is covered only under the
    “regarded as” definition of “disability.”

Note: Although the amended ADA states that the definition of disability “shall be construed broadly” and
“should not demand extensive analysis,” some courts require specificity in the complaint explaining how an
impairment substantially limits a major life activity or what facts indicate the challenged employment action
was because of the impairment. Beyond the initial pleading stage, some courts will require specific evidence
to establish disability. For more information, consult the amended regulations and appendix, as well as
explanatory publications, available at http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/types/disability_regulations.cfm.
                         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 29 of 40
EEOC Form 5 (11/09)


                      CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION                                                           Charge Presented To:             Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
             This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                         FEPA
                    Statement and other information before completing this form.                                                530-2021-03385
                                                                                                            X   EEOC

                                                 Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                               and EEOC
                                                                         State or local Agency, if any
Name (indicate Mr., Ms., Mrs.)                                                                                   Home Phone (Incl. Area Code)           Date of Birth
                                                                                                                                                     January 13,
Mr. Martin Lespier                                                                                                  717-475-2828
                                                                                                                                                        1956
Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code

 76 Newlin Rd, Parkesburgh, PA 19365

Named is the Employer, Labor Organization, Employment Agency, Apprenticeship Committee, or State or Local Government Agency That I Believe
Discriminated Against Me or Others. (If more than two, list under PARTICULARS below.)
Name                                                                                                             No. Employees, Members      Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Jenner's Pond                                                                                                          500+                     610-869-6700
Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code

2000 Greenbriar Ln, West Grove, PA 19390

Name                                                                                                             No. Employees, Members      Phone No. (Include Area Code)

Compass Unidine                                                                                                         500+                     704-328-4000
Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code

2400 Yorkmont Rd, Charlotte NC, 28217

DISCRIMINATION BASED ON (Check appropriate box(es).)                                                                     DATE(S) DISCRIMINATION TOOK PLACE
                                                                                                                              Earliest               Latest

    X     RACE               COLOR                 SEX                 RELIGION                NATIONAL ORIGIN               Oct. 2019           December 2020
         X     RETALIATION           X     AGE              DISABILITY                    GENETIC INFORMATION

                       OTHER (Specify)                                                                                                    CONTINUING ACTION

THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):


 Mr. Martin Lespier is a 65-year old Hispanic male who was formerly employed by Compass Unidine
 (“Compass”) and Jenner's Pond. He began his employment at Compass in 1998 and, during his time
 there, he was jointly employed by Jenner's Pond. Compass is a staffing company that staffed employees
 for Jenner's Pond’s nursing home.

 Mr. Lespier was an executive chef who was responsible for all food operations in the Alison Ruston Preston
 Buildings at Jenner's Pond. Although staffed by Compass, Jenner's Pond served as Mr. Lespier’s joint
 employer. Indeed, Mr. Lespier’s position was salaried; he had to follow Jenner Pond’s schedule and
 policies; his work station was located at Jenner's Pond; he had set hours; and he could not come and go
 from Jenner's Pond as he pleased.

 On October 12, 2019, Mr. Lespier first began experiencing racism/ageism at Jenner's Pond. He was
 moved to another building and his job was taken over by his assistant.
I want this charge filed with both the EEOC and the State or local Agency, if any. I          NOTARY – When necessary for State and Local Agency Requirements
will advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will
cooperate fully with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their
procedures.                                                                                   I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true to
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                        the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                              SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                              SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                              (month, day, year)

             Date                              Charging
                                               Charg
                                                  r in
                                                    i g Part
                                                        Party
                                                          rty S
                                                              Signature

EEOC Form 5 (11/09)
                    Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 30 of 40
                  CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION             Charge Presented To: Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
          This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                    FEPA
                 Statement and other information before completing this form.
                                                                                                   X    EEOC

                                               Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                           and EEOC
                                                                   State or local Agency, if any
THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):
\

 Doug Flasher, COO of Simpsons Senior and Interim Executive Director of Jenner's Pond, made this
 decision. Mr. Lespier was not afforded the opportunity to complain about the reassignment because Mr.
 Flasher instructed management from Compass to inform Mr. Lespier of this adverse employment action.
 This was due to Mr. Lespier’s age and race.

 Following his reassignment, Mr. Lespier continued to endure hostility and discrimination. He endured
 comments and microagressions indicating that the was no longer welcome amongst the staff. In fact, shortly
 after the reassignment, management endeavored to secure Mr. Lespier’s removal from his position. Mr.
 Flasher in particular led the charging noting his distaste for “contract employees,” which was shorthand for
 older employees who had been at Jenner’s Pond for years.

 Mr. Lespier was notified in late 2020 that he would have to resign from the position. This was not due to
 performance. Mr. Lespier had excellent performance reviews and evaluations. In fact, he had superior food
 and labor costs over the course of his 22-year career as well as great reviews from residents. His inspection
 records also bore out his excellent performance as executive chef.

 Mr. Lespier was told by two Unidine employees, at Doug Flasher’s behest, that he had to “be out by the end
 of the year.” He was not given a choice. If he did not resign, Mr. Flasher would personally fire him. On
 December 28, 2020, Mr. Flasher succeeded in forcing Mr. Lespier’s resignation. This amounted to a
 constructive discharge.

 Jenner's Pond replaced Mr. Lespier with Mr. Lance Powers. Mr. Powers is over twenty years younger than
 Mr. Lespier. And Jenner's Pond paid him $14,000 less to take the position.

 Jenner's Pond and Unidine’s actions undoubtedly demonstrate that they only eliminated his position due to
 his age and/or race.




I want this charge filed with both the EEOC and the State or local Agency, if any. I       NOTARY – When necessary for State and Local Agency Requirements
will advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will cooperate
fully with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their procedures.
                                                                                           I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                     to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                           SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                           SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                           (month, day, year)

          Date                                 Charging
                                               Charg
                                                  r in
                                                    i g Party
                                                        Part
                                                          rty Signature
                                                              S
                          Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 31 of 40
EEOC Form 161 (11/2020)                  U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION

                                                 DISMISSAL AND NOTICE OF RIGHTS
To:    Martin Lespier                                                                 From:     Philadelphia District Office
       76 Newlin Road                                                                           801 Market Street
       Parkesburg, PA 19365                                                                     Suite 1000
                                                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19107


                            On behalf of person(s) aggrieved whose identity is
                            CONFIDENTIAL (29 CFR §1601.7(a))
EEOC Charge No.                                 EEOC Representative                                                    Telephone No.

                                                Legal Unit,
530-2021-03385                                  Legal Technician                                                       (267) 589-9700
THE EEOC IS CLOSING ITS FILE ON THIS CHARGE FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:
                 The facts alleged in the charge fail to state a claim under any of the statutes enforced by the EEOC.

                 Your allegations did not involve a disability as defined by the Americans With Disabilities Act.

                 The Respondent employs less than the required number of employees or is not otherwise covered by the statutes.

                 Your charge was not timely filed with EEOC; in other words, you waited too long after the date(s) of the alleged
                 discrimination to file your charge
       X         The EEOC issues the following determination: The EEOC will not proceed further with its investigation, and makes no
                 determination about whether further investigation would establish violations of the statute. This does not mean the claims
                 have no merit. This determination does not certify that the respondent is in compliance with the statutes. The EEOC
                 makes no finding as to the merits of any other issues that might be construed as having been raised by this charge.
                 The EEOC has adopted the findings of the state or local fair employment practices agency that investigated this charge.

                 Other (briefly state)

                                                         - NOTICE OF SUIT RIGHTS -
                                                   (See the additional information attached to this form.)

Title VII, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, or the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act: This will be the only notice of dismissal and of your right to sue that we will send you.
You may file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) under federal law based on this charge in federal or state court. Your
lawsuit must be filed WITHIN 90 DAYS of your receipt of this notice; or your right to sue based on this charge will be
lost. (The time limit for filing suit based on a claim under state law may be different.)

Equal Pay Act (EPA): EPA suits must be filed in federal or state court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the
alleged EPA underpayment. This means that backpay due for any violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years)
before you file suit may not be collectible.

                                                                     On behalf of the Commission

                                                                                                                     August 16, 2021
Enclosures(s)                                                                                                                  (Date Issued)
                                                                    Dana R. Hutter,
                                                                    Deputy Director
cc:
           Giancarlo Pozos                                                           Andrew Lacy, Jr.
           Associate Counsel                                                         THE LACY EMPLOYMENT LAW FIRM LLC
           COMPPASS GROUP                                                            2514 W. Seybert
           2400 YORKMONT RD                                                          Phila, PA 19121
           Charlotte, NC 28217
                  Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 32 of 40
Enclosure with EEOC
Form 161 (11/2020)
                                             INFORMATION RELATED TO FILING SUIT
                                           UNDER THE LAWS ENFORCED BY THE EEOC
                               (This information relates to filing suit in Federal or State court under Federal law.
                      If you also plan to sue claiming violations of State law, please be aware that time limits and other
                             provisions of State law may be shorter or more limited than those described below.)


                                       Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS               --
                                       the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), or the Age
                                       Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA):

In order to pursue this matter further, you must file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) named in the cha rge within
90 days of the date you receive this Notice. Therefore, you should keep a record of this date. Once this 90-
day period is over, your right to sue based on the charge referred to in this Notice will be lost. If you intend to
consult an attorney, you should do so promptly. Give your attorney a copy of this Notice, and its envelope or
record of receipt, and tell him or her the date you received it. Furthermore, in order to avoid any question that you
did not act in a timely manner, it is prudent that your suit be filed within 90 days of the date this Notice was
issued to you (as indicated where the Notice is signed) or the date of the postmark or record of receipt, if later.

Your lawsuit may be filed in U.S. District Court or a State court of competent jurisdiction. (Usually, the appropriate
State court is the general civil trial court.) Whether you file in Federal or State court is a matter for you to decide
after talking to your attorney. Filing this Notice is not enough. You must file a "c omplaint" that contains a short
statement of the facts of your case which shows that you are entitled to relief. Your suit may include any matter
alleged in the charge or, to the extent permitted by court decisions, matters like or related to the matters alleged in
the charge. Generally, suits are brought in the State where the alleged unlawful practice occurred, but in some
cases can be brought where relevant employment records are kept, where the employment would have been, or
where the respondent has its main office. If you have simple questions, you usually can get answers from the
office of the clerk of the court where you are bringing suit, but do not expect that office to write your complaint or
make legal strategy decisions for you.

PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS               --   Equal Pay Act (EPA):

EPA suits must be filed in court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the alleged EPA underpayment: back
pay due for violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible. For
example, if you were underpaid under the EPA for work performed from 7/1/08 to 12/1/08, you should file suit
before 7/1/10 – not 12/1/10 -- in order to recover unpaid wages due for July 2008. This time limit for filing an EPA
suit is separate from the 90-day filing period under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA referred to above.
Therefore, if you also plan to sue under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA, in addition to suing on the EPA
claim, suit must be filed within 90 days of this Notice and within the 2- or 3-year EPA back pay recovery period.

ATTORNEY REPRESENTATION --                     Title VII, the ADA or GINA:

If you cannot afford or have been unable to obtain a lawyer to represent you, the U.S. District Court having jurisdiction
in your case may, in limited circumstances, assist you in obtaining a lawyer. Requests for such assistance must be
made to the U.S. District Court in the form and manner it requires (you should be prepared to explain in detail your
efforts to retain an attorney). Requests should be made well before the end of the 90-day period mentioned above,
because such requests do not relieve you of the requirement to bring suit within 90 days.

ATTORNEY REFERRAL AND EEOC ASSISTANCE                             --   All Statutes:

You may contact the EEOC representative shown on your Notice if you need help in finding a lawyer or if you have any
questions about your legal rights, including advice on which U.S. District Court can hear your case. If you need to
inspect or obtain a copy of information in EEOC's file on the charge, please request it promptly in writing and provide
your charge number (as shown on your Notice). While EEOC destroys charge files after a certain time, all charge files
are kept for at least 6 months after our last action on the case. Therefore, if you file suit and want to review the charge
file, please make your review request within 6 months of this Notice. (Before filing suit, any request should be
made within the next 90 days.)

                  IF YOU FILE SUIT, PLEASE SEND A COPY OF YOUR COURT COMPLAINT TO THIS OFFICE.
                Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 33 of 40




Enclosures(s)


cc:
                         Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 34 of 40
EEOC Form 5 (11/09)


                      CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION                                                           Charge Presented To:             Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
             This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                         FEPA
                    Statement and other information before completing this form.
                                                                                                            X   EEOC

                                                 Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                               and EEOC
                                                                         State or local Agency, if any
Name (indicate Mr., Ms., Mrs.)                                                                                   Home Phone (Incl. Area Code)           Date of Birth
                                                                                                                                                     January 13,
Mr. Martin Lespier                                                                                                  717-475-2828
                                                                                                                                                        1956
Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code

 76 Newlin Rd, Parkesburgh, PA 19365

Named is the Employer, Labor Organization, Employment Agency, Apprenticeship Committee, or State or Local Government Agency That I Believe
Discriminated Against Me or Others. (If more than two, list under PARTICULARS below.)
Name                                                                                                             No. Employees, Members      Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Jenner's Pond                                                                                                          500+                     610-869-6700
Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code

2000 Greenbriar Ln, West Grove, PA 19390

Name                                                                                                             No. Employees, Members      Phone No. (Include Area Code)

Compass Unidine                                                                                                         500+                     704-328-4000
Street Address                                                                   City, State and ZIP Code

2400 Yorkmont Rd, Charlotte NC, 28217

DISCRIMINATION BASED ON (Check appropriate box(es).)                                                                     DATE(S) DISCRIMINATION TOOK PLACE
                                                                                                                              Earliest               Latest

    X     RACE               COLOR                 SEX                 RELIGION                NATIONAL ORIGIN               Oct. 2019           December 2020
         X     RETALIATION           X     AGE              DISABILITY                    GENETIC INFORMATION

                       OTHER (Specify)                                                                                                    CONTINUING ACTION

THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):


 Mr. Martin Lespier is a 65-year old Hispanic male who was formerly employed by Compass Unidine
 (“Compass”) and Jenner's Pond. He began his employment at Compass in 1998 and, during his time
 there, he was jointly employed by Jenner's Pond. Compass is a staffing company that staffed employees
 for Jenner's Pond’s nursing home.

 Mr. Lespier was an executive chef who was responsible for all food operations in the Alison Ruston Preston
 Buildings at Jenner's Pond. Although staffed by Compass, Jenner's Pond served as Mr. Lespier’s joint
 employer. Indeed, Mr. Lespier’s position was salaried; he had to follow Jenner Pond’s schedule and
 policies; his work station was located at Jenner's Pond; he had set hours; and he could not come and go
 from Jenner's Pond as he pleased.

 On October 12, 2019, Mr. Lespier first began experiencing racism/ageism at Jenner's Pond. He was
 moved to another building and his job was taken over by his assistant.
I want this charge filed with both the EEOC and the State or local Agency, if any. I          NOTARY – When necessary for State and Local Agency Requirements
will advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will
cooperate fully with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their
procedures.                                                                                   I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true to
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                        the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                              SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                              SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                              (month, day, year)

             Date                              Charging Party Signature

EEOC Form 5 (11/09)
                    Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 35 of 40
                  CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION             Charge Presented To: Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
          This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                    FEPA
                 Statement and other information before completing this form.
                                                                                                   X    EEOC

                                               Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                           and EEOC
                                                                   State or local Agency, if any
THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):
\

 Doug Flasher, COO of Simpsons Senior and Interim Executive Director of Jenner's Pond, made this
 decision. Mr. Lespier was not afforded the opportunity to complain about the reassignment because Mr.
 Flasher instructed management from Compass to inform Mr. Lespier of this adverse employment action.
 This was due to Mr. Lespier’s age and race.

 Following his reassignment, Mr. Lespier continued to endure hostility and discrimination. He endured
 comments and microagressions indicating that the was no longer welcome amongst the staff. In fact, shortly
 after the reassignment, management endeavored to secure Mr. Lespier’s removal from his position. Mr.
 Flasher in particular led the charging noting his distaste for “contract employees,” which was shorthand for
 older employees who had been at Jenner’s Pond for years.

 Mr. Lespier was notified in late 2020 that he would have to resign from the position. This was not due to
 performance. Mr. Lespier had excellent performance reviews and evaluations. In fact, he had superior food
 and labor costs over the course of his 22-year career as well as great reviews from residents. His inspection
 records also bore out his excellent performance as executive chef.

 Mr. Lespier was told by two Unidine employees, at Doug Flasher’s behest, that he had to “be out by the end
 of the year.” He was not given a choice. If he did not resign, Mr. Flasher would personally fire him. On
 December 28, 2020, Mr. Flasher succeeded in forcing Mr. Lespier’s resignation. This amounted to a
 constructive discharge.

 Jenner's Pond replaced Mr. Lespier with Mr. Lance Powers. Mr. Powers is over twenty years younger than
 Mr. Lespier. And Jenner's Pond paid him $14,000 less to take the position.

 Jenner's Pond and Unidine’s actions undoubtedly demonstrate that they only eliminated his position due to
 his age and/or race.




I want this charge filed with both the EEOC and the State or local Agency, if any. I       NOTARY – When necessary for State and Local Agency Requirements
will advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will cooperate
fully with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their procedures.
                                                                                           I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                     to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                           SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                           SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                           (month, day, year)

          Date                                 Charging Party Signature
                          Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 36 of 40
EEOC Form 161 (11/2020)                  U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION

                                                 DISMISSAL AND NOTICE OF RIGHTS
To:    Martin Lespier                                                                 From:     Philadelphia District Office
       76 Newlin Road                                                                           801 Market Street
       Parkesburg, PA 19365                                                                     Suite 1000
                                                                                                Philadelphia, PA 19107


                            On behalf of person(s) aggrieved whose identity is
                            CONFIDENTIAL (29 CFR §1601.7(a))
EEOC Charge No.                                 EEOC Representative                                                    Telephone No.

                                                Legal Unit,
530-2021-03376                                  Legal Technician                                                       (267) 589-9700
THE EEOC IS CLOSING ITS FILE ON THIS CHARGE FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:
                 The facts alleged in the charge fail to state a claim under any of the statutes enforced by the EEOC.

                 Your allegations did not involve a disability as defined by the Americans With Disabilities Act.

                 The Respondent employs less than the required number of employees or is not otherwise covered by the statutes.

                 Your charge was not timely filed with EEOC; in other words, you waited too long after the date(s) of the alleged
                 discrimination to file your charge
       X         The EEOC issues the following determination: The EEOC will not proceed further with its investigation, and makes no
                 determination about whether further investigation would establish violations of the statute. This does not mean the claims
                 have no merit. This determination does not certify that the respondent is in compliance with the statutes. The EEOC
                 makes no finding as to the merits of any other issues that might be construed as having been raised by this charge.
                 The EEOC has adopted the findings of the state or local fair employment practices agency that investigated this charge.

                 Other (briefly state)

                                                         - NOTICE OF SUIT RIGHTS -
                                                   (See the additional information attached to this form.)

Title VII, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, or the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act: This will be the only notice of dismissal and of your right to sue that we will send you.
You may file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) under federal law based on this charge in federal or state court. Your
lawsuit must be filed WITHIN 90 DAYS of your receipt of this notice; or your right to sue based on this charge will be
lost. (The time limit for filing suit based on a claim under state law may be different.)

Equal Pay Act (EPA): EPA suits must be filed in federal or state court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the
alleged EPA underpayment. This means that backpay due for any violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years)
before you file suit may not be collectible.

                                                                     On behalf of the Commission

                                                                                                                     August 16, 2021
Enclosures(s)                                                                                                                  (Date Issued)
                                                                    Dana R. Hutter,
                                                                    Deputy Director
cc:
           Doug Flasher                                                              Andrew Lacy, Esq.
           COO                                                                       THE LACY EMPLOYMENT LAW FIRM LLC
           JENNER'S POND, INC.                                                       2514 W Seybert Philadelphia
           2000 GREENBRIAR LN                                                        Phila, PA 19121
           West Grove, PA 19390
                  Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 37 of 40
Enclosure with EEOC
Form 161 (11/2020)
                                             INFORMATION RELATED TO FILING SUIT
                                           UNDER THE LAWS ENFORCED BY THE EEOC
                               (This information relates to filing suit in Federal or State court under Federal law.
                      If you also plan to sue claiming violations of State law, please be aware that time limits and other
                             provisions of State law may be shorter or more limited than those described below.)


                                       Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS               --
                                       the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), or the Age
                                       Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA):

In order to pursue this matter further, you must file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) named in the charge within
90 days of the date you receive this Notice. Therefore, you should keep a record of this date. Once this 90-
day period is over, your right to sue based on the charge referred to in this Notice will be lost. If you intend to
consult an attorney, you should do so promptly. Give your attorney a copy of this Notice, and its envelope or
record of receipt, and tell him or her the date you received it. Furthermore, in order to avoid any question that you
did not act in a timely manner, it is prudent that your suit be filed within 90 days of the date this Notice was
issued to you (as indicated where the Notice is signed) or the date of the postmark or record of receipt, if later.

Your lawsuit may be filed in U.S. District Court or a State court of competent jurisdiction. (Usually, the appropriate
State court is the general civil trial court.) Whether you file in Federal or State court is a matter for you to decide
after talking to your attorney. Filing this Notice is not enough. You must file a "complaint" that contains a short
statement of the facts of your case which shows that you are entitled to relief. Your suit may include any matter
alleged in the charge or, to the extent permitted by court decisions, matters like or related to the matt ers alleged in
the charge. Generally, suits are brought in the State where the alleged unlawful practice occurred, but in some
cases can be brought where relevant employment records are kept, where the employment would have been, or
where the respondent has its main office. If you have simple questions, you usually can get answers from the
office of the clerk of the court where you are bringing suit, but do not expect that office to write your complaint or
make legal strategy decisions for you.

PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS               --   Equal Pay Act (EPA):

EPA suits must be filed in court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the alleged EPA underpayment: back
pay due for violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible. For
example, if you were underpaid under the EPA for work performed from 7/1/08 to 12/1/08, you should file suit
before 7/1/10 – not 12/1/10 -- in order to recover unpaid wages due for July 2008. This time limit for filing an EPA
suit is separate from the 90-day filing period under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA referred to above.
Therefore, if you also plan to sue under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA, in addition to suing on the EPA
claim, suit must be filed within 90 days of this Notice and within the 2- or 3-year EPA back pay recovery period.

ATTORNEY REPRESENTATION --                     Title VII, the ADA or GINA:

If you cannot afford or have been unable to obtain a lawyer to represent you, the U.S. District Court having jurisdiction
in your case may, in limited circumstances, assist you in obtaining a lawyer. Requests for such assistance must be
made to the U.S. District Court in the form and manner it requires (you should be prepared to explain in detail your
efforts to retain an attorney). Requests should be made well before the end of the 90-day period mentioned above,
because such requests do not relieve you of the requirement to bring suit within 90 days.

ATTORNEY REFERRAL AND EEOC ASSISTANCE                             --   All Statutes:

You may contact the EEOC representative shown on your Notice if you need help in finding a lawyer or if you have any
questions about your legal rights, including advice on which U.S. District Court can hear your case. If you need to
inspect or obtain a copy of information in EEOC's file on the charge, please request it promptly in writing and provide
your charge number (as shown on your Notice). While EEOC destroys charge files after a certain time, all charge files
are kept for at least 6 months after our last action on the case. Therefore, if you file suit and want to review the charge
file, please make your review request within 6 months of this Notice. (Before filing suit, any request should be
made within the next 90 days.)

                  IF YOU FILE SUIT, PLEASE SEND A COPY OF YOUR COURT COMPLAINT TO THIS OFFICE.
                Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 38 of 40




Enclosures(s)


cc:
                        Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 39 of 40
EEOC Form 5 (11/09)


                      CHARGE OF DISCRIMINATION                                                             Charge Presented To:              Agency(ies) Charge No(s):
              This form is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. See enclosed Privacy Act                            FEPA                       530-2021-04382
                     Statement and other information before completing this form.

                                                                                                               X EEOC
                                                    Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission                                                                   and EEOC
                                                                           State or local Agency, if any
Name (indicate Mr., Ms., Mrs.)                                                                                      Home Phone (Incl. Area Code)              Date of Birth

Ms. Kimberly Ann McClay                                                                                            302-287-8655                        12/15/1961

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

1413 Berry Drive, Kennett Square PA. 19348


Named is the Employer, Labor Organization, Employment Agency, Apprenticeship Committee, or State or Local Government Agency That I Believe
Discriminated Against Me or Others. (If more than two, list under PARTICULARS below.)
Name                                                                                                                No. Employees, Members         Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Simpson Senior Services at Jenner's Pond                                                                          ~300                         610-869-6711

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

2000 Greenbrair Lane, West Grove PA 19390

Name                                                                                                                No. Employees, Members         Phone No. (Include Area Code)

 Unidine Lifestyles/Compass Group                                                                                  > 500,000                    704-328-6206

Street Address                                                                  City, State and ZIP Code

1000 Washington Street, Suite 510, Boston, MA 02118–2798

DISCRIMINATION BASED ON (Check appropriate box(es).)                                                                        DATE(S) DISCRIMINATION TOOK PLACE
                                                                                                                                  Earliest                Latest
          RACE                 COLOR            X     SEX                 RELIGION                NATIONAL ORIGIN                  2019                     02/08/2021
         X       RETALIATION           X    AGE          X    DISABILITY                   GENETIC INFORMATION

                       OTHER (Specify)                                                                                                X       CONTINUING ACTION

THE PARTICULARS ARE (If additional paper is needed, attach extra sheet(s)):
      Kim McClay, a 59-year old woman, had been working at Jenner’s Pond since April 13, 2000. Currently, Jenner’s Pond is a
 Simpson Senior Services continuing care retirement community (CCRC) under contract with Unidine, a food service provider
 in the Compass Group. Despite providing over twenty-one (21) years of exceptionally professional service, management began
 targeting older employees. Only hours after her supervisors were made aware of Ms. McClay’s disability, she was placed on
 administrative leave during an investigation of theft. Although the allegation of theft was determined to be unfounded, Ms.
 McClay was demoted while on medical leave.

       In her last position, General Manager for Hospitality, Ms. McClay's job duties included overseeing Dining in all
 areas–Independent Living, Assisted Living and Skilled Nursing. She was also in charge of Housekeeping from 2007 until 2021,
 when Simpson Senior Services requested a contract change, adding Housekeeping to her responsibilities. In January 2021, Mr.
 Flasher requested another contract change to eliminate Ms. McClay’s housekeeping responsbilities. Ms. McClay received
 numerous accolades for her dedication, loyalty and outstanding performance. Until February 2021, Ms. McClay had not
 received any complaints from management, or clients, related to her job performance. In fact, Ms. McClay was consistently
 praised for her performance, receiving merit-based salary increases each year. In addition to internal commodation, Ms.
 McClay’s exceptional performance was recognized by leadership of other CCRCs. Once admired and respected throughout the
 industry, Jenner’s Pond became an increasingly hostile workplace, targeting older employees. A consummate professional, Ms.
 McClay followed Compass policy to address the toxic environment that decreased staff, and resident, satisfaction.

                 Kim McClay, and another older employee working at Jenner’s Pond for over 20 years, Martin Lespier, Senior
 Executive Chef, began feeling targeted professionally and personally in early 2019. The new Chief Operating Officer at Jenner’s
 Pond, Douglass Flasher, was the source of the humiliation and denigrating remarks. Management was verbally informed of the
 older employee’s concerns in 2019. At the 1/14/2020 Dining Committee Meeting, residents complained to Mr. Flasher about
                        Case 2:21-cv-04903-GAM Document 1 Filed 11/05/21 Page 40 of 40
 what they perceived as a decline in dining services, especially after Mr. Lespier was reassigned, and replaced by a younger Chef.
 Mr. Flasher publicly humiliated Ms. McClay at this meeting, in effect holding her responsible for the changes. In fact, it was Mr.
 Flasher who contrived to remove Mr. Lespier through Ms. McClay’s supervisor, Matt Groux. Compass Human Resources
 escalated Ms. McClay’s complaint about Mr. Flasher to the Regional Vice President, Eugene Hood, and brought to the attention
 of Unidine Area President, Jack Silk. However, Mr. Flasher’s behavior towards the older employees did not change. After 23
 years of serving the Jenner’s Pond community, Mr. Lespier resigned at the end of 2020. Similarly, Ms. McClay felt that Mr.
 Flasher was attempting to create a work environment so hostile that her position would become untenable, forcing her to resign.
 Mr. Flasher treated Ms. McClay differently than other similarly-situated males.

          On 2/8/2021, Douglass Flasher requested a meeting with Matt Groux and Eugene Hood. On their way to the meeting,
 Messrs. Groux and Hood overheard a phone conversation in which Ms. McClay learned that surgery was recommended to treat
 her back pain. After the meeting, they informed Ms. McClay that she was immediately placed on administrative leave during an
 investigation of theft. She was asked to leave, and locked out of Jenner’s Pond email. She did not take any of her belongings. On
 2/12/2021, Ms. McClay’s primary care provider, Julia Kasper, submitted FMLA paperwork to Unidine/Compass. The allegation
 of theft was determined to be unfounded.

          On 3/24/2021, Ms. McClay was informed that she would resume work at a level below her proven professionalism
   when returning from medical leave. It has been indicated, in no unceratin terms, that Ms. McClay will not resume her
   responsibilities at her previous job. Certain facts remains clear, Jenner’s Pond discriminated against Ms. McClay because of
   her age; upper management there and at Unidine failed to protect her from the hostile work environment. When her disability
   became known, Jenner’s Pond and Unidine relied upon a pretextual theft investigation to justify their retaliation of removing
   her as General Manager for Hospitality.


I want this charge filed with both the EEOC and the State or local Agency, if any. I will   NOTARY – When necessary for State and Local Agency Requirements
advise the agencies if I change my address or phone number and I will cooperate fully
with them in the processing of my charge in accordance with their procedures.
                                                                                            I swear or affirm that I have read the above charge and that it is true to the
I declare under penalty of perjury that the above is true and correct.                      best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                                                            SIGNATURE OF COMPLAINANT



                                                                                            SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS DATE
                                                                                            (month, day, year)

            Date                                Charging Party Signature
