Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/60698604/1/powell-v-berkeley-trace-2019-llc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in Powell v. Berkeley Trace 2019, LLC (E.D. Pa., 2:21-cv-04866) – CourtListener.com

Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 1 of 12

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA
CIVIL ACTION

 

DARRIEN POWELL,

Plaintiff : CIVIL ACTION NO.
v.
JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
BERKELEY TRACE 2019, LLC
and :
CHELSEA MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC. d/b/a :
CHELSEA MANAGEMENT :
and
CHELSEA MANAGEMENT LLC d/b/a
CHELSEA MANAGEMENT

Defendants ; COMPLAINT

 

COMPLAINT

INTRODUCTION

Plaintiff, Darrien Powell (“Plaintiff”), by and through his attorney, Gerald B. Baldino, III,

Esq., brings this action against the herein named Defendants, Berkeley Trace 2019, LLC; Chelsea

Management Group, Inc. d/b/a Chelsea Management and Chelsea Management LLC d/b/a Chelsea

Management (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Defendants”), for unlawful discrimination on

the basis of his race, color, age and disability, retaliation, and Plaintiff's wrongful termination in

violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §2000e, et seq. (“Title

VII”), the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance, Phila. Code § 9-1101 et seq., 42 U.S.C. Section

1981, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (“ADEA”), 29 U.S.C. §§ 621, et. seg., the

Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) 42 ULS.C. §§ 12101, ef seg., and Plaintiff seeks

damages, including compensatory, liquidated, punitive, and attorneys’ fees and costs, and all other

relief that this Court deems appropriate, and respectfully represents as follows:
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 2 of 12

PARTIES

1. Plaintiff, Darrien Powell, is an adult individual and resident of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania and City and County of Philadelphia.

2. Plaintiff is a fifty-six (56) year old African-American/black male, and at all times
material hereto was an employee of Defendants within the meaning of the statutes that form the
basis of this matter.

3. During the course of his employment, Plaintiff was diagnosed with degenerative
arthritis of the right knee, a medical condition, which meets the definition of a “disability” under
the Americans with Disabilities Act in that it substantially impairs one or more of Plaintiff Powell’s
major life activities. At all times, Plaintiff Powell was able to perform the essential functions of
his position of employment.

3. Defendant Berkeley Trace 2019, LLC, is a Pennsylvania corporation with a
registered business address of 10900 Bustleton Ave., Philadelphia, PA 19116.

4, Defendant Chelsea Management Group, Inc. d/b/a Chelsea Management, is a
corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey with a business
address at 282 Cedar Bridge Ave, Lakewood, NJ 08701.

5. Defendant Chelsea Management LLC d/b/a Chelsea Management is a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey with a business address at 282
Cedar Bridge Ave, Lakewood, NJ 08701.

6. Defendants Chelsea Management Group, Inc. d/b/a Chelsea Management and
Chelsea Management LLC d/b/a Chelsea Management (hereinafter referred to as the “Chelsea

Management Defendants”) own, manage, control, and/or operate apartments and housing
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 3 of 12

complexes in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware, including in the City and County of
Philadelphia.

7. At all times material hereto, Defendants were employers within the meaning of the
statutes which form the basis of this matter.

8. The Defendants regularly engage in and conduct business in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.

9. At all times material hereto, Defendants acted by and through their authorized
agents, servants, workmen, and/or employees acting within the course and scope of their
employment with Defendants and in furtherance of Defendants’ business.

10. | Upon information and beliefs, Defendants were jointly responsible for directing,
supervising, managing, and operating the dealership, including with regard to decisions concerning
the compensation, bonuses, fringe benefits, discharge, and replacement of all employees at the
apartment complex, including Plaintiff.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

11. The causes of action which form the basis of this matter arise under Title VII, the
PFPO, Section 1981, the ADEA, and the ADA.

12. The District Court has jurisdiction over Count I (Title VID, Count III (Section
1981), Count IV (ADEA) and Count V (ADA) pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §2000e-5 and 28 U.S.C.
§1331.

13. The District Court has supplemental jurisdiction over Plaintiff's state law claims in
Count II (PFPO) pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §1367.

14, =‘ Venue is proper in the District Court under 28 U.S.C. §1391(b) and 42 U.S.C. §

2000e-5(£)(3).
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 4 of 12

15. _ All conditions precedent to the institution of this suit have been fulfilled. Plaintiff
timely filed a charge of discrimination, retaliation, and unlawful termination with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”), which was dual-filed with the Philadelphia
Commission on Human Relations (“PCHR”), received a Notice of Right to Sue (““NRTS”) from
the EEOC, and has properly commenced this action within 90 days of the receipt of the NRTS and
has fully complied with all administrative prerequisites for the commencement of this action.
Attached hereto, incorporated herein, and marked as Exhibit “A” is a true and correct copy of the
Notice of Right to Sue.

GENERAL ALLEGATIONS

16. Throughout his employment with Defendants, up until his unlawful termination on
January 26, 2021, because of his race, color, age, and disability and in retaliation of his complaints
of discrimination, Plaintiff was employed by Defendants as a maintenance worker at the Berkeley
Trace Apartments located at 3806 Bensalem Blvd., Bensalem PA 19020.

17. Upon information and belief, the Berkeley Trace Apartments are one of many
apartment and housing complexes owned, operated, and/or managed by the Chelsea Management
Defendants.

18. | As a maintenance worker, Plaintiff was responsible for performing maintenance
and repairs on apartment units, turning over apartments for new residents, and performing
maintenance and repairs on the exteriors of building and on the grounds of the premises.

19. During his time as a maintenance worker, Plaintiff was an excellent employee,
consistently meeting expectations and standards for his position and finishing his work and

maintenance assignments in a timely manner.
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 5 of 12

20. By way of example, Plaintiff was informed that he did an excellent job when filling
in as a supervisor for the maintenance supervisor who was away in October of 2020.

21. Jn fact, Plaintiff managed to maintain his consistent performance despite a
diagnosis of arthritis in his right knee that caused him pain while working.

22. Plaintiff's condition, to wit the degenerative arthritis of his right knee, was further
exacerbated by a work fall on or about July 18, 2020 when he fell, causing his left hip arthritis to
become symptomatic, however he continued to work and timely complete his work assignments
and meet all expectations and standards for his position.

23. | However, throughout the course of his employment and up to and including his
termination, Plaintiff was subjected to discrimination on the basis of his age, race and disability
by Defendants, their servants, employees, and agents.

24. By way of example, Plaintiff was routinely given less time to turn over apartments
than other maintenance workers.

25. Specifically, Plaintiff would be given three (3) days to turn over a unit, while other,
younger, non-African American employees without disabilities were given five (5) days.

26. Plaintiff notified Phillip Himy, the property manager, and complained about the
amount of time he had to turn over apartments compared to other similarly situated maintenance
workers and complained about his hip pain and disability but was still given less time to turn over
apartments than his co-workers.

27. Upon information and belief, Plaintiff was given less time because of his race,
color, age, and disability.

28. Despite being given less time than the other similarly situated maintenance

workers, Plaintiff still managed to turn over his units consistently and on time.
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 6 of 12

29. Plaintiff was also denied performance reviews and raises that were provided to
other younger and/or white employees.

30. Specifically, other younger and/or Caucasian maintenance workers were provided
performance reviews and raises.

31. These performance reviews and raises were not provided to Plaintiff, and it is
believed and therefore averred that this was because of Plaintiff's race, color, age and disability.

32. Plaintiff complained about not receiving his performance review and not having a
chance to achieve a raise, but no remedial efforts were made, and the discrimination continued.

33. Instead, Plaintiff was ultimately terminated on January 26, 2021, and was told that
it was because of his performance, even though Plaintiff had not had any performance related
issues, disciplinary actions, or write-ups.

34. Upon information and belief, Plaintiff was thereafter replaced by a younger, less
qualified, and less experienced Caucasian maintenance worker who was not “disabled” as defined
by the ADA.

34. It is believed and therefore averred that the reasoning for Plaintiff's termination is
pretextual, and that the real reason for Plaintiff's termination is discriminatory and retaliatory.

35. Plaintiff, Darrien Powell, was discriminated against on the basis of his race, color,
age and disability with respect to the terms, conditions and/or privileges of his employment.

36. Defendants wholly failed to prevent or address the discriminatory and retaliatory
conduct referred to herein and further failed to take corrective and remedial measures to make the
workplace free of discrimination and retaliation.

37. | The discriminatory and retaliatory conduct of Defendants made Plaintiff believe

that the conditions of employment had been altered.
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 7 of 12

38. | Under these circumstances, the retaliatory actions that Plaintiff was subjected to,
including but not limited to the denial of his request for more time to flip over the apartments,
denial of performance reviews and raises, and subsequent termination, would deter a reasonable
employee from exercising their rights.

39. Defendants acted with malice, reckless indifference and/or deliberate indifference
to Plaintiff’s federal and locally protected rights.

40. Upon information and belief, Defendants had a pattern or practice of discriminating
against older employees, African-American and black employees, and employees with disabilities.

41. Plaintiffs race, color, and age and disability were a motivating factor in
Defendants’ improper and discriminatory treatment of plaintiff.

42. Plaintiffs race, color, and age and disability were a determinative factor in
Defendants’ improper and discriminatory treatment of plaintiff.

43. Asa direct and proximate result of the discriminatory and retaliatory conduct of
Defendants, Plaintiff has in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, a loss of earnings and/or
earning capacity including back and front pay, loss of benefits, pain and suffering, embarrassment,
humiliation, loss of self-esteem, mental anguish, and loss of life’s pleasures, the full extent of
which is not known at this time.

COUNT I - TITLE VII
Plaintiff, Darrien Powell v. All Defendants

44. Plaintiff incorporates by reference the paragraphs above as if set forth herein in
their entirety.

45. By committing the foregoing acts of discrimination and retaliation against Plaintiff,

Defendants have violated Title VII.
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 8 of 12

46. — Said violations were willful and intentional and warrant the imposition of punitive
damages.

47.  Asadirect and proximate result of Defendants’ violation of Title VII, Plaintiff has
suffered the damages and losses set forth herein and has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

48. Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injury and
monetary damages as a result of Defendants’ harassment and discriminatory and retaliatory acts
unless and until this Court grants the relief requested herein.

49. By reason of Defendants’ discriminatory acts and retaliation, Ms. Powell is entitled
to all legal and equitable remedies available under Title VII.

50. _—_No previous application has been made for the relief requested herein.

COUNT II - PFPO
Plaintiff, Darrien Powell v. All Defendants

51. Plaintiff incorporates by reference the paragraphs above as if set forth herein in
their entirety.

52. By committing the foregoing acts of discrimination, harassment and retaliation
against Plaintiff, Defendant has violated the PHRA.

53. Said violations were intentional and willful.

54. Asadirect and proximate result of Defendants’ violation of the PFPO, Plaintiff has
sustained the injuries, damages, and losses set forth herein and has incurred attorneys’ fees and
costs.

55. Plaintiff is now suffering and will continue to suffer irreparable injuries and
monetary damages as a result of Defendants’ discriminatory and retaliatory acts unless and until

the Court grants the relief requested herein.
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 9 of 12

56. By reason of Defendants’ harassment, discrimination and retaliation, Mr. Powell is
entitled to all legal and equitable remedies available under the PFPO.

57. No previous application has been made for the relief requested herein.

COUNT III —- SECTION 1981
Plaintiff, Darrien Powell v. All Defendants

58. Plaintiff incorporates by reference the paragraphs above as if set forth herein in
their entirety.

59. By committing the foregoing acts of discrimination, harassment and retaliation,
Defendant has violated Section 1981.

60. Said violations were done with malice and/or reckless indifference toward the
federally protected rights of Plaintiff and their conduct warrants the imposition of punitive
damages.

61. Asadirect and proximate result of Defendants’ violation of Section 1981, Plaintiff
has suffered the damages and losses set forth herein and has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

62. The wrongful acts and conduct of Defendants were done with deliberate
indifference to the statutory and constitutional rights of Plaintiff.

63. No previous application has been made for the relief requested herein.

COUNT IV— ADEA
Plaintiff, Darrien Powell v. All Defendants

64. Plaintiff incorporates by reference the paragraphs above as if set forth herein in
their entirety.

65. By committing the foregoing acts of discrimination and retaliation, Defendant has

violated the ADEA.
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 10 of 12

66. Said violations were done with malice and/or reckless indifference toward the
federally protected rights of Plaintiff.

67. Asa direct and proximate result of Defendants’ violation of the ADEA, Plaintiff
has suffered the damages and losses set forth herein and has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

68. The wrongful acts and conduct of Defendants were done with deliberate
indifference to the statutory and constitutional rights of Plaintiff.

69. No previous application has been made for the relief requested herein.

COUNT V-—ADA
Plaintiff, Darrien Powell v. All Defendants

70. Plaintiff incorporates by reference the paragraphs above as if set forth hercin in
their entirety.

71. The actions of the Defendant, through its agents, servants and employees, in
subjecting Plaintiff Powell to discrimination based on his actual and/or perceived disability and/or
record of impairment, and retaliation for his complaints thereof, constituted a violation of the
ADA.

72, By committing the foregoing acts of discrimination and retaliation, Defendant has
violated the ADA.

73. Said violations were done with malice and/or reckless indifference toward the
federally protected rights of Plaintiff.

74. Asadirect and proximate result of Defendants’ violation of the ADA, Plaintiff has
suffered the damages and losses set forth herein and has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

75. The wrongful acts and conduct of Defendants were done with deliberate

indifference to the statutory and constitutional rights of Plaintiff.
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 11 of 12

76. No previous application has been made for the relief requested herein.
PRAYER FOR RELIEF

77. Plaintiff incorporates by reference the paragraphs above as if set forth herein in
their entirety.

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks damages and legal and equitable relief in connection with
Defendants’ improper conduct, and specifically prays that the Court grant the following relief to
the Plaintiff by:

(a) declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be in violation of Title VII;

(b) declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be in violation of the PFPO;

(c) declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be in violation of Section 1981;

(d) declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be in violation of the ADEA;

(e) declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be in violation of the ADA;

(f) enjoining and permanently restraining the violations alleged herein;

(g) entering judgment against the Defendants and in favor of the Plaintiff in an amount to
be determined;

(h) awarding compensatory damages to make the Plaintiff whole for all past lost earnings,
eaming capacity and benefits, which Plaintiff has suffered or may suffer as a result of Defendant’s
improper conduct;

(i) awarding compensatory damages to Plaintiff for past and future pain and suffering,
emotional upset, mental anguish, humiliation, and loss of life’s pleasures, which Plaintiff has
suffered or may suffer as a result of Defendants’ improper conduct;

(j) awarding punitive damages to Plaintiff under Title VII;
Case 2:21-cv-04866-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/21 Page 12 of 12

(k) awarding Plaintiff such other damages as are appropriate under Title VII, the PFPO,
Section 1981, the ADEA, and ADA;

(I) awarding Plaintiff the costs of suit, expert fees and other disbursements, and reasonable
attorney’s fees; and;

(m) granting such other and further relief as this Court may deem just, proper, or equitable
including other equitable and injunctive relief providing restitution for past violations and
preventing future violations.

JURY DEMAND

Plaintiff demands a trial by jury of the claims asserted herein.

SACCHETTA & BALDINO

GERALD B. BALDINO, III, ESQUIRE
Attorney LD. No. 326111

308 East Second Street

Media, PA 19063

P: (610) 891-9212

F: (610) 891-7190
gbaldino@sbattorney.com

Attorney for Plaintiff
