Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/60053712/1/hepp-v-the-barnes-foundation/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in HEPP v. THE BARNES FOUNDATION (E.D. Pa., 2:21-cv-03099) – CourtListener.com

           Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 1 of 17




UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------X
CHRISTOPHER CONOR HEPP,
                                                                             Civil Action No.
                                            Plaintiff,

                 v.

THE BARNES FOUNDATION; SHELLEY BERNSTEIN,                                    COMPLAINT
individually; PEG ZMINDA, individually; and VALERIE
GAY, individually,


                                            Defendants.                      Plaintiff Demands a
                                                                             Trial by Jury

-------------------------------------------------------------------------X

Plaintiff, CHRISTOPHER CONOR HEPP, as and for his Complaint against the above

Defendants respectfully alleges upon information and belief as follows:



                                         NATURE OF THE CASE

    1. Plaintiff complains pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §

        12101 et seq. (“ADA”), the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (“PHRA”) and the

        Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance (“PFPO”) and seeks damages to redress the injuries

        Plaintiff has suffered as a result of being discriminated against and harassed on the basis

        of his disability (both actual and perceived disabilities), and retaliated against on the basis

        of his reporting of the same.


                                     JURISDICTION AND VENUE
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 2 of 17




2. This action involves questions of federal law under the Americans with Disabilities Act

   of 1990.

3. This court has supplemental jurisdiction over the state and city causes of action, as they

   arise out of the same nucleus of operative fact.

4. Venue is proper in this district based upon the fact that Plaintiff was employed by

   Defendants within the County of Philadelphia, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, within

   the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Additionally, the events at issue took place in

   Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania within the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

5. Around June 24, 2020, Plaintiff dual-filed charges with the Equal Employment

   Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”), Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission

   (“PHRC”), and Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations (“PCHR”) against all

   Defendants as set forth herein.

6. Around May 21, 2021, the EEOC issued Plaintiff his Notice of Right to Sue.

7. This action is being commenced within 90 days of receipt of the EEOC Notice of Right

   to Sue.



                                        PARTIES

8. Plaintiff CHRISTOPHER CONOR HEPP (hereinafter referred to as “Plaintiff” and/or

   “HEPP”) is seeking damages to redress the injuries Plaintiff has suffered as a result of

   being discriminated against by his employer on the basis of his disability (both actual and

   perceived), and retaliated against for complaining about and reporting the discrimination.

9. Plaintiff HEPP is an individual male who resides in the County of Chester within the

   Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 3 of 17




10. At all times material, Defendant THE BARNES FOUNDATION (hereinafter referred to

   as Defendant and/or “BARNES”) was and is a domestic nonprofit corporation duly

   organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

11. At all times material, Defendant BARNES operated and continues to operate a museum

   located at 2025 Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Philadelphia, PA 19130.

12. At all times material, Defendant SHELLEY BERNSTEIN (hereinafter referred to as

   “BERNSTEIN”) was employed by Defendant BARNES as Deputy Director and Chief

   Experience Officer, and later as Consulting Creative Technologist.

13. At all times material, Defendant BERNSTEIN held supervisory authority over Plaintiff.

14. At all times material, Defendant PEG ZMINDA (hereinafter referred to as “ZMINDA”)

   was and is employed by Defendant BARNES as Vice President.

15. At all times material, Defendant ZMINDA held supervisory authority over Plaintiff.

16. At all times material, Defendant VALERIE GAY (hereinafter referred to as “GAY”) was

   and is employed by Defendant BARNES as Deputy Director of Audience Engagement.

17. At all times material from approximately mid-2019 to the present, GAY held direct

   supervisory authority over Plaintiff.

                                    MATERIAL FACTS

18. Plaintiff claims a continuous practice of discrimination and claims a continuing violation,

   and makes all claims herein under the continuing violations doctrine.

19. Around 2016, Defendant BARNES hired Plaintiff as Director of Visitor Services,

   working out of Defendant’s museum located in Philadelphia, PA.

20. Upon his hire, Plaintiff initially reported directly to Defendant BERNSTEIN.
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 4 of 17




21. Plaintiff was diagnosed with epilepsy around 2016, which causes periodic seizures.

   Accordingly, Plaintiff takes prescribed medication in order to manage his symptoms.

22. Beginning throughout 2017, Defendant BERNSTEIN regularly harassed and demeaned

   Plaintiff and created a hostile working environment.

23. By means of example, BERNSTEIN would mock Plaintiff regarding his disability and

   would berate him about his alleged “memory problems.” BERNSTEIN’s harassment was

   so pervasive that Plaintiff even resorted to changing his prescribed medication dosages

   (after consulting with his doctor) in a futile attempt to placate BERNSTEIN and stop her

   harassment.

24. BERNSTEIN also regularly baselessly accused Plaintiff of poor communication skills

   and even told him at one point that he was no longer permitted to take notes when he met

   with her.

25. As BERNSTEIN’s harassment did not cease, Plaintiff reported the ongoing harassment to

   Defendant ZMINDA, but received no support.

26. Accordingly, around January 2018, Plaintiff directly addressed the harassment with

   BERNSTEIN in a meeting and informed her that the treatment was unacceptable and

   contrary to Defendant BARNES’ employee handbook and policies.

27. Soon after this meeting, around February 2018, Defendant BERNSTEIN retaliated

   against Plaintiff by issuing him a negative annual performance review for the 2017 Fiscal

   Year. Defendant ZMINDA, who was also Acting Head of Human Resources at the time,

   was also present for this meeting, and accordingly was made fully aware of

   BERNSTEIN’s illegal retaliation.
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 5 of 17




28. Accordingly, Plaintiff soon after made a formal complaint to BARNES’ General

   Counsel, Sarah Geelan, as well as to BARNES’ Human Resources department, reporting

   both BERNSTEIN’s ongoing disability-related harassment and blatant retaliation for

   opposing the same.

29. BARNES did little in response other than to inform Plaintiff that he needed to sign his

   performance appraisal if he was to receive his yearly pay increase and that he could

   include comments if he desired. Although Plaintiff did so, BARNES failed to provide his

   yearly pay increase.

30. Despite Plaintiff’s reports, BERNSTEIN continued to harass Plaintiff throughout mid-

   2018, and began subjecting him to increased scrutiny and nitpicking in response to his

   report of her conduct.

31. Furthermore, despite BARNES’ assurance to Plaintiff that his report would be

   investigated and that he would receive written documentation of such, Plaintiff never

   received any communication regarding his complaints.

32. Accordingly, BERNSTEIN was given free rein to continue harassing Plaintiff,

   culminating in an incident in which she screamed at Plaintiff and belittled him during a

   telephone call around June 14, 2018, which Plaintiff accordingly again reported to

   Human Resources.

33. Around August 10, 2018, BERNSTEIN transitioned to a new role with BARNES as

   Consulting Creative Technologist, and Plaintiff began working under the direct

   supervision of Defendant ZMINDA.

34. Unfortunately, ZMINDA continued the campaign of harassment and retaliation against

   Plaintiff that BERNSTEIN had begun.
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 6 of 17




35. By means of example, instead of fairly reviewing Plaintiff’s performance, ZMINDA

   issued a negative performance review to Plaintiff for the 2018 Fiscal Year, and also

   revealed that she had accepted BERNSTEIN’s 2017 appraisal of Plaintiff that lacked

   Plaintiff’s signature or notes in which he rebutted BERNSTEIN’s false claims.

36. ZMINDA also continued to discriminate and retaliate against Plaintiff in other ways,

   such as holding a meeting with Valerie Gay and Plaintiff’s staff to gather further

   information for his review without his knowledge that such information would be used

   for his review, and subjecting Plaintiff to a “360 Performance Appraisal” despite

   Plaintiff’s continued strong work performance.

37. Ultimately, ZMINDA failed to formally complete Plaintiff’s 2018 performance review

   until October 2019 – 11 months after the report was due. ZMINDA’s actions constituted

   continued retaliation and a continued maintenance of the same hostile work environment

   to which Defendants subjected Plaintiff.

38. Around March 5, 2019, Plaintiff met with Defendant GAY for the first time, who

   informed Plaintiff that she had been told that “some staff” (specifically referring to

   Plaintiff) suffered from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (“PTSD”) from Defendant

   BERNSTEIN’s actions.

39. Following this meeting, Defendants regularly referred to and perceived Plaintiff as a

   person suffering from PTSD.

40. During this time, Plaintiff was still required to report to BERNSTEIN on various

   projects, and BERNSTEIN continued to discriminate and retaliate against Plaintiff by

   untruthfully complaining that Plaintiff’s performance was subpar, as well as reporting

   negative comments to ZMINDA about Plaintiff.
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 7 of 17




41. Around June 2019, Defendant BARNES formally moved Plaintiff under Defendant

   GAY’s management. Soon after, GAY remarked to Plaintiff that she still regularly met

   with BERNSTEIN.

42. Accordingly, despite the change in direct management, BERNSTEIN still negatively

   impacted Plaintiff’s career and used her influence to continue the hostile work

   environment and retaliation against him.

43. Around January 14, 2020, Defendants announced a forthcoming “restructuring” of

   Plaintiff’s department.

44. Accordingly, a Senior Director position was created above Plaintiff’s position, and

   Plaintiff was accordingly informed that because of the restructuring and the creation of

   the Senior Director position, he would once again not be receiving a salary increase for

   the year. Despite Defendants’ refusal to provide Plaintiff a salary increase, a majority of

   Plaintiff’s direct reports allegedly received pay increases.

45. Additionally, Defendants excluded Plaintiff from numerous meetings directly pertaining

   to this restructuring, while at the same time forming a group composed of two executive

   team members, three HR employees, and three other department directors who were

   formerly Plaintiff’s equals to plan the restructuring and the future of the department.

   Defendants never informed Plaintiff why they had refused to include him in this process.

46. Even more egregiously, due to the creation of the new position, Plaintiff was effectively

   demoted, as Plaintiff’s department (Visitor Experience) was combined with the Security

   Department, and he was accordingly made to share a Director position and begin

   reporting to a Senior Director, instead of the executive team to which he previously
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 8 of 17




   reported, lowering him on Defendants’ organizational chart. Plaintiff was also excluded

   from high-level meetings and discussions in which he formerly had been included.

47. In connection with the “restructuring,” Plaintiff’s oversight of the Ticketing and Call

   Center departments was removed and given to the Director of Retail, who was then

   promoted to a Senior Director level because of this added work. Incredibly, Plaintiff had

   been requesting a similar promotion because of his added responsibilities since 2017, yet

   Defendants refused to treat Plaintiff in the same way.

48. In a further act of discrimination, Defendants refused to allow Plaintiff to interview for

   the newly-created Senior Director position after he applied around February 11, 2020,

   despite his substantial qualifications for the position. In an apparent attempt to justify

   their discriminatory actions, Defendants further proved their discriminatory animus,

   referencing Plaintiff’s “troubles in the past” and “the PTSD” for their justification to

   deny him the promotion. Instead, the position was given to a substantially lesser

   qualified individual.

49. In a meeting with Defendant GAY around the same time, GAY told Plaintiff that she had

   “pushed [him] as far as she could” and once again referenced Plaintiff’s perceived PTSD.

50. Accordingly, during a telephone call with HR Director Sheronda Whitaker (hereinafter

   “Whitaker”) around February 18, 2020, Plaintiff inquired why he had not been promoted

   to a Senior Director position considering that he had overseen more departments and staff

   than any prior Director or Senior Director. In response, Whitaker stated that the

   employee who had been given the promotion had received such because of their revenue

   growth, increase in workload, and increase in staff—all areas in which Plaintiff had
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 9 of 17




   successfully managed for several years while being regularly denied the same

   opportunity.

51. As a further act of retaliation for his continued reports of discrimination and harassment,

   Defendants cut Plaintiff’s work hours to around 20 per week during the COVID-19

   pandemic, while keeping his similarly-situated coworkers at full-time hours.

52. By means of example, Defendant GAY informed Plaintiff in early June 2020 that his

   similarly-situated coworker, Al Holland (hereinafter “Holland”) (with whom Plaintiff

   was made to share a co-director position as noted in paragraph 39) was being brought

   back to work on a full-time basis to handle “security concerns,” but that Plaintiff would

   remain part-time. As Plaintiff also oversaw security operations for Defendants,

   Defendants had no legitimate reason to treat Plaintiff differently.

53. Even when Plaintiff directly requested to be included in discussions pertaining to security

   concerns due to recent protests in Philadelphia between Holland, Defendant GAY, and

   Senior Director Erica Simonitis, Defendants ignored his request, failing to notify him of

   meetings or include him in discussions, despite Plaintiff’s role in overseeing security with

   Holland.

54. Similarly, Defendants continued to exclude Plaintiff from discussions and important

   meetings such as the Weekly Operations Meeting, while inviting other employees at and

   even below Plaintiff’s level to attend. Defendants also excluded Plaintiff from

   discussions and decision-making related to a supervisor’s promotion to Manager within

   his department.

55. Defendants continued to tell Plaintiff that there was “no established time frame” for his

   return to full-time work throughout early June 2020, while at the same time bringing back
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 10 of 17




   Senior Director Erica Simonitis on a full-time basis around June 15. Accordingly,

   Plaintiff was the only Director under Defendant GAY to continue working part-time

   hours during this time.

56. Finally, around June 19, 2020, Defendants abruptly contacted Plaintiff to schedule a

   meeting via videocall, and subsequently informed him during that meeting that they were

   terminating him due to alleged “financial constraints.”

57. As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff was caused to sustain serious and permanent

   personal injuries, including permanent psychological injuries.

58. As a result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiff felt and continues to feel extremely

   humiliated, degraded, victimized, embarrassed and emotionally distressed.

59. As a result of the acts and conduct complained of herein, Plaintiff has suffered and will

   continue to suffer the loss of income, the loss of salary, bonuses, benefits and other

   compensation which such employment entails, and Plaintiff also suffered future

   pecuniary losses, emotional pain, humiliation, suffering, inconvenience, loss of

   enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses. Plaintiff has further experienced

   severe emotional and physical distress.

60. As Defendant’s conduct has been malicious, willful, outrageous, and conducted with full

   knowledge of the law, Plaintiff demands Punitive Damages as against all Defendants,

   jointly and severally.

61. The above are just some examples of some of the discrimination and harassment to which

   Defendants subjected Plaintiff.

62. Defendants have exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination but also

   retaliation.
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 11 of 17




63. Plaintiff claims alternatively (in the event that Defendants claim so or that the Court

   determines) that Plaintiff is an Independent Contractor, and Plaintiff makes all applicable

   claims for the above conduct and facts under the applicable law pertaining to Independent

   Contractors.


                        AS A FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
                   FOR DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE ADA
             (Not Against Defendants BERNSTEIN, ZMINDA, or GAY)

64. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this complaint.

65. Title 42 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-336), Chapter 126,

   Subchapter I, § 12112, Discrimination [Section 102] states: “(a) General rule. - No

   covered entity shall discriminate against a qualified individual on the basis of disability in

   regard to job application procedures, the hiring, advancement, or discharge of employees,

   employee compensation, job training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of

   employment.”

66. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating against and

   harassing Plaintiff because of his disabilities (both actual and perceived).

67. As such, Plaintiff has been damaged as set forth herein.



                        AS A SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
                       FOR RETALIATION UNDER THE ADA

68. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this complaint.

69. Title 42 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-336), Chapter 126,

   Subchapter IV, § 12203, states: “(a) Retaliation: No person shall discriminate against any
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 12 of 17




   individual because such individual has opposed any act or practice made unlawful by this

   chapter or because such individual made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in

   any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter.”

70. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating against and

   retaliating against Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants’ unlawful

   employment practices.


                        AS A THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION
             FOR DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE PENNSYLVANIA
                            HUMAN RELATIONS ACT
             (Not against Defendants BERNSTEIN, ZMINDA, or GAY)

71. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this complaint.

72. PHRA § 955 provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: “(a) For any

   employer because of the race, color, religious creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or

   non-job related handicap or disability or the use of a guide or support animal because of

   the blindness, deafness or physical handicap of any individual or independent contractor,

   to refuse to hire or employ or contract with, or to bar or to discharge from employment

   such individual or independent contractor, or to otherwise discriminate against such

   individual or independent contractor with respect to compensation, hire, tenure, terms,

   conditions or privileges of employment or contract, if the individual or independent

   contractor is the best able and most competent to perform the services required.”

73. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating against the

   Plaintiff because of his disability (both actual and perceived).
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 13 of 17




74. Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all of the applicable paragraphs

   of the PHRA § 955.

                     AS A FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION
               FOR RETALIATION UNDER THE PENNSYLVANIA
                         HUMAN RELATIONS ACT

75. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this complaint.

76. PHRA § 955(d) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: “For any

   person, employer, employment agency or labor organization to discriminate in any

   manner against any individual because such individual has opposed any practice

   forbidden by this act, or because such individual has made a charge, testified or assisted,

   in any manner, in any investigation, proceeding or hearing under this act.”

77. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discharging, retaliating,

   and otherwise discriminating against the Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s opposition to the

   unlawful employment practices of Plaintiff’s employer.

                       AS A FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION
         FOR AIDING AND ABETTING UNDER THE PENNSYLVANIA
                          HUMAN RELATIONS ACT
           (As against Defendants BERNSTEIN, ZMINDA, and GAY)



78. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this Complaint.

79. PHRA § 955(e) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: "For any

   person, employer, employment agency, labor organization or employee, to aid, abet,

   incite, compel or coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful

   discriminatory practice, or to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with the
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 14 of 17




   provisions of this act or any order issued thereunder, or to attempt, directly or indirectly,

   to commit any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice."

80. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of PHRA §

   955(e) by aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling and coercing the discriminatory conduct.

                         AS A SIXTH CAUSE OF ACTION
             FOR DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE PHILADELPHIA
                         FAIR PRACTICES ORDINANCE
             (Not against Defendants BERNSTEIN, ZMINDA, or GAY)



81. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this complaint.

82. The Philadelphia Fair Practice Ordinance § 9-1103(1) provides that “It shall be an

   unlawful discriminatory practice to practice to deny or interfere with the employment

   opportunities of an individual based upon his or her race, ethnicity, color, sex (including

   pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition), sexual orientation, gender identity,

   religion, national origin, ancestry, age, disability, marital status, familial status, genetic

   information, or domestic or sexual violence victim status, including, but not limited, to

   the following: (a) For any employer to refuse to hire, discharge, or otherwise discriminate

   against any individual, with respect to tenure, promotions, terms, conditions or privileges

   of employment or with respect to any matter directly or indirectly related to

   employment.”

83. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of Philadelphia Fair

   Practice Ordinance § 9-1103(1) by creating and maintaining discriminatory working

   conditions, and otherwise discriminating against Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s disability

   (both actual and perceived).
     Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 15 of 17




84. Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendant under all of the applicable paragraphs of

   Philadelphia Fair practice Ordinance Chapter 9-1100.

                    AS A SEVENTH CAUSE OF ACTION
               FOR RETALIATION UNDER THE PHILADELPHIA
                      FAIR PRACTICES ORDINANCE



85. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this Complaint.

86. The Philadelphia Fair Practice Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(g) provides that it shall be unlawful

   discriminatory practice: “For any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage, or otherwise

   penalize, retaliate or discriminate in any manner against any person because he, she, or it

   has complied with the provisions of this chapter, exercised his, her or its rights under this

   chapter, enjoyed the benefits of this Chapter, or made a charge, testified or assisted in any

   manner in any investigation, proceeding or hearing hereunder.”

87. Defendant engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of Philadelphia Fair

   Practice Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(g) by discriminating against the Plaintiff because of

   Plaintiff’s opposition to the unlawful employment practice of Plaintiff’s employer.


                      AS AN EIGHTH CAUSE OF ACTION
          FOR AIDING AND ABETTING UNDER THE PHILADELPHIA
                        FAIR PRACTICES ORDINANCE
            (As against Defendants BERNSTEIN, ZMINDA, and GAY)

88. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this Complaint.

89. The Philadelphia Fair Practice Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) provides that it shall be unlawful

   discriminatory practice: “For any person to aid, abet, incite, induce, compel or coerce the
         Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 16 of 17




       doing of any unlawful employment practice or to obstruct or prevent any person from

       complying with the provisions of this Section or any order issued hereunder or to attempt

       directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this Section to be an unlawful

       employment practice.”

   90. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of Philadelphia Fair

       Practice Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) provides that it shall be unlawful discriminatory

       practice: “For any person to aid, abet, incite, induce, compel or coerce the doing of any

       unlawful employment practice or to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with

       the provisions of this section or any order issues hereunder or to attempt directly or

       indirectly to commit any act declared by this Section to be an unlawful employment

       practice.”

   91. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of Philadelphia Fair

       Practice Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) by aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling and coercing

       the above discriminatory, unlawful and retaliatory conduct.



                                           JURY DEMAND

       Plaintiff requests a jury trial on all issues to be tried.


                                       PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment against Defendants, jointly and severally,

in an amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, including but not limited to all

emotional distress and back pay and front pay, punitive damages, liquidated damages, statutory

damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements of action; and for such other relief as the

Court deems just and proper.
        Case 2:21-cv-03099-JDW Document 1 Filed 07/13/21 Page 17 of 17




Dated: July 13, 2021

                                    DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
                                    Attorneys for Plaintiff Christopher Conor Hepp


                                       By: _____________________________
                                          Nathaniel N. Peckham, Esq.
                                          1835 Market Street, Suite 2950
                                          Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
                                          Tel. (215) 391-4790
                                          Fax: (215) 893-5288
                                          nathaniel@dereksmithlaw.com
