Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/59989338/1/mcclelland-v-dechert-llp/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in McClelland v. DECHERT LLP (E.D. Pa., 2:21-cv-02702) – CourtListener.com

             Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 1 of 25




DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP PLLC                                  Counsel for Plaintiff
By: SCOTT E. DIAMOND, ESQUIRE
Attorney ID No.:
1835 Market St., Suite 2950
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
(215) 391-4790
scott@dereksmithlaw.com

                  IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
                       EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


CELIENA MCCLELLAND,                                 :       COMPLAINT
                                         :
                                                    :
                        Plaintiff,                  :       CIVIL ACTION
                                                    :
        v.                                          :       No.
                                                    :
DECHERT, LLP and                                    :       JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
ELAINE WRY (Individually)                           :
                                                    :
                        Defendants.                 :


    Plaintiff, Celiena McClelland, by and through his counsel, The Derek Smith Law Group,

PLLC, brings this civil action against Defendants, DECHERT, LLP, and ELAINE WRY

(individually), (hereafter collectively “Defendants"). Upon information and belief and in support

thereof, Plaintiff alleges as follows:

                                I. NATURE OF THE COMPLAINT

        1.      This is an action seeking damages to redress the injuries Plaintiff has suffered,

and continues to suffer, as a result of unlawful employment discrimination and retaliation by

Defendant against Plaintiff in violation of 42 U.S.C. §1981, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of

1964, as codified, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e to 2000e-17 (amended in 1972, 1978 and by the Civil

Rights Act of 1991, Pub. L. No. 102-166 (“Title VII”)), and to remedy violations of the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, as amended, 43 P.S. §§ 951, et. seq. (“PHRA”).


                                                1
                    Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 2 of 25




                                                 II. PARTIES

2.            Plaintiff, CELIENA MCCLELLAND (hereafter “Plaintiff”) is an individual African

     American female and resident of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, residing at 5517 Willows

     Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19143

              3.     Defendant, DECHERT, LLP (hereafter “DECHERT” or “Defendant”) is a

     business corporation duly authorized to conduct business and subject to the laws of the

     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and Federal Laws, doing business in several states and having

     more than 15 employees. Dechert is located at 2929 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

     19104.

              4.     Defendant, ELAINE WRY (hereafter “WRY”) is an adult individual female and

     was and upon information and belief still is employed by Defendant DECHERT.

              5.     At all times material, Defendant WRY was employed by Defendant DECHERT

     and held supervisory authority over Plaintiff.

              6.     WRY is named as a Defendant both in her individual capacity, and his corporate

     capacity as an employee of Defendant DECHERT.

              7.     Defendant(s) accepted, agreed, adopted, acquiesced, and/or otherwise was bound

     by the actions, omissions, and conduct of its owners, managers, supervisors, employees, and

     agents including WRY.

                                       III. JURISDICTION & VENUE

              22.    This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s claims arising under

     Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as codified, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq. (“Title VII”)

     and 42 U.S.C § 1981, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §1331, and 29 U.S.C. § 216(b).




                                                      2
              Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 3 of 25




        23.     Venue in this Court is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b) because a substantial part

of the acts or omissions giving rise to the claims alleged herein occurred within this judicial

district, and Defendants are subject to personal jurisdiction in this district.

                     IV. EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

        24.     On March 8, 2021, Plaintiff dual-filed a Charge of Discrimination (Charge No.

530-2021-02300) with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and The

Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission.

        25.     Plaintiff received a Notice of Right to Sue from the EEOC on June 2, 2021, for

her Charge of Discrimination.

        26.     Plaintiff’s claims under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (“PHRA”) are

still pending before Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”) because less than

one year has elapsed since PHRC assumed jurisdiction over his charges. After one year, Plaintiff

will seek leave to amend this complaint to assert his PHRA claims.

                                   V. FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS


    1. Plaintiff Was hired by Dechert LLP to work in the billing department in or around 2000.

    2. In December 2020 Plaintiff was constructively discharged and forced to submit her letter

        of resignation due to the racial discrimination and harassment that she was subjected to

        by her manager Wry, Director Financial Operations.

    3. Wry’s bias towards Plaintiff was racially motivated and began in February 2019.

        Plaintiff is an African American woman and Wry is Asian. Wry treated Plaintiff as

        though she were incompetent, unintelligent, and unworthy of the authority and respect of

        Plaintiff’s position at the Employer. For example, Plaintiff was often given unrealistic

        deadlines and an excessive workload which made the working environment hostile. The



                                                   3
        Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 4 of 25




   unrealistic deadlines and excessive workload were not required by Plaintiff’s Non-

   African American counterparts.

4. In February 2019 early in Wry tenure with Dechert, she began to display that she did not

   trust Plaintiff’s ability to lead the Billing Team. Wry was an extreme micromanager only

   with Plaintiff. On many occasions Wry would contact billing members asking them

   questions about Plaintiff with neither reason nor provocation. Team Members informed

   Plaintiff of Wry’s activity. Wry did not micromanage Non-African Americans

5. In February through March of 2019 three billers resigned from Plaintiff’s team. Wry

   summoned Plaintiff to her office asked if the billers were leaving because of Wry.

   Plaintiff responded that the billers were leaving because they had been complaining about

   not making enough money and that other firms were paying their billers over $10k more

   than Dechert.

6. As a result of the meeting Wry contacted Human Resources and requested the last 10

   years of exit interviews for the billing department. At the time Wry clearly knew why the

   billers were leaving as it was not a secret. The billers were complaining to many people

   that their salaries were less than comparable positions at other firms. Wry told Plaintiff

   that the exit interviews were being looked at for analysis purposes. The requested

   information was to be completely anonymous such that the names, dates and any

   identifying information would not be revealed. On May 16, 2019, Wry discussed the

   information with Plaintiff along with Gary, from Human Resources. During the meeting

   Gary and Wry blindsided Plaintiff insinuating that that she was the reason for the high

   turnover rate in the billing department. Plaintiff was told that past billers mentioned

   issues with Plaintiff’s communication skills. After almost 20 years of service to Dechert,




                                             4
         Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 5 of 25




   this was the first time anyone mentioned to Plaintiff that she had communication issues.

   Wry, determined to sabotage Plaintiff with Human Resources present, began to discuss

   unrelated issues with Plaintiff in an effort to undermine her credibility and performance

   at the Firm. For example, Wry mentioned that she heard Plaintiff being short with a biller

   named Henry White. Plaintiff was not short withy Mr. White. Wry’s intent was not to

   analyze the information, but to embellish the information to create a false narrative about

   Plaintiff to Human Resources. Plaintiff believed that the criticism of her was not based in

   fact but was based upon Wry’s discriminatory conduct due to Plaintiff being African

   American.

7. Wry accused Plaintiff of using a bad tone with a biller but could not specify to whom or

   when that complaint was made. Wry stated that Plaintiff was against advancement of her

   team members and used a biller, Mark Constantine as an example. Wry wanted

   Constantine to be moved away from Plaintiff’s team to a different department, the e-

   billing team. Plaintiff had denied Wry’s request because he was needed for billing on

   Plaintiff’s short-staffed team, and he was not knowledgeable enough of e-billing.

   Therefore, he was not qualified for the job.

8. Wry then stated that Plaintiff was against using an e-billing coordinator Jason Carroll to

   conduct training. Plaintiff knew that Carroll had issues with his confidence and at that

   time had not been trained on how to conduct a training session. Plaintiff worked with him

   and scheduled him to conduct a training session on preparing reports with the e-billing

   team so that he would be trained and to give him structure for presenting material for

   training.




                                            5
        Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 6 of 25




9. Wry asserted that Plaintiff had no patience when training new billers. Once again, this is

   the first time that Plaintiff was ever given this information in addition Wry had not

   witnessed this from Plaintiff. At this point in the meeting Wry had started to get

   frustrated because she was not able to substantiate her claims against Plaintiff. Wry

   demonstrated that she was against Plaintiff being a manager. All of these events occurred

   within three months of Plaintiff working under Wry. No other Caucasian employee was

   being sabotaged. Plaintiff was intentionally being targeting due to her race.

10. April 11, 2019, there was a scheduled telephone conference with client Airbus. Plaintiff

   was told by Wry that some members in attendance would not be announced (introduced)

   during the call as to not overwhelm the client. In attendance was Airbus (client), Wry

   (Director Financial Operations), Troy Senter (CFO), Wil Rivera (E-Billing Supervisor),

   Anthony Bash (Financial Operations Manager EMEA office), Allan Chan (Billing

   Supervisor, EMEA office), Isabel Campos (Billing Supervisor, NY office) and Plaintiff.

   Wry, Senter, Rivera and Plaintiff were all in a conference room in the Philadelphia office.

   Earlier in the week Plaintiff informed Wry that she would be attending a funeral that day

   and would need to leave the office at 10am. Wry had no issue with Plaintiff leaving for

   the funeral. Plaintiff reminded Wry again that same day of her need to attend the funeral.

   During the meeting everyone was announced except for Rivera and Plaintiff. At some

   point during the meeting Senter said “our E-billing Manager, Wil Rivera has a question”.

   Rivera neither indicated he had a question, nor had he been announced as an attendee of

   the meeting. Rivera was not the E-billing manager, he was a supervisor. The Plaintiff

   was the manager of the billing and e-billing departments. Rivera was junior to Plaintiff

   and Plaintiff was the only person in attendance that had not been announced, and the only




                                            6
         Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 7 of 25




   African American person in attendance. Once the meeting ended, Plaintiff gathered her

   things to leave the conference room. After the client was disconnected, Wry told the

   others in attendance that Plaintiff was also in the room only because they heard Wry ask

   Plaintiff to stay for a debrief. Shortly after that Wry went to Plaintiff’s cubicle as she was

   gathering her personal things to leave and noticed that Plaintiff was upset and asked to

   talk to her. Plaintiff told Wry that she had to leave and that she would be back.

11. When Plaintiff returned that afternoon Wry called her into her office to reprimanded

   Plaintiff and accused Plaintiff of being unprofessional. Wry stated that she did not

   appreciate Plaintiff walking off the job and that Plaintiff had gotten loud with her on the

   floor. Wry was fabricating the entire episode. Plaintiff had not raised her voice. Plaintiff

   then reminded Wry that she was informed at least twice of the funeral. That accusation of

   the Plaintiff “walked off the job” was a mischaracterization of the facts.

12. Wry then wanted to talk about what happened in the meeting because she knew that

   Plaintiff was upset. Plaintiff told her that she felt Senter was inappropriate when he called

   Rivera the manager of the e-billing department. In fact, that was Plaintiff’s position. In

   addition, Rivera did not have a question and the only reason to call on Rivera was to

   introduce him as the manager.

13. Wry asked Plaintiff if she could tell Senter about the conversation and Plaintiff agreed

   that she could, Plaintiff had nothing to hide as a twenty-year employee of the firm.

   Several days later Senter scheduled to meet with Plaintiff in his office. The purpose of

   the meeting was to discuss the Airbus meeting. During the meeting he started the

   conversation asking Plaintiff why she walked off the job. Plaintiff informed him that she

   has never walked off the job that she had a funeral to attend and that her attendance was




                                             7
         Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 8 of 25




   approved by Wry in advance. He then stated that Plaintiff should have reminded Wry on

   that day, which Plaintiff did. Wry had obviously complained to Senter about Plaintiff

   being upset but never told him that Plaintiff had a funeral to attend.

14. The meeting continued and Senter talked about him calling Rivera the E-billing Manager,

   Plaintiff told him that it was inappropriate since that was her position. He went on to say

   that Plaintiff needed to humble herself. Senter discounted Plaintiff’s accomplishments

   and refused to apologize for humiliating her in a public forum. Plaintiff was afraid to

   pursue the conversation any further in fear of losing her job. Plaintiff believes that her

   mistreatment was discriminatory in nature due to her being a female African American.

   Plaintiff also believed that Senter was supporting Wry’s discriminatory actions and in

   consort with her to push Plaintiff out of Dechert.

15. E-billing supervisor Rivera reported directly to Plaintiff. Plaintiff emailed him requesting

   that he schedule and provide e-billing training for a temporary biller. Initially he did not

   reply to the email. Plaintiff noticed his attitude toward her had changed since Rivera's

   interactions with Wry. Prior to the meeting Plaintiff had a great working relationship with

   Rivera. A few days later Plaintiff sent a follow up email and he replied that Jason Carroll

   would be doing the training. Plaintiff specifically requested that Rivera conduct the

   training since Plaintiff was the manager of the department, she was authorized to make

   that decision, as it within the scope of her authority. Instead, Wry and Rivera decided,

   without the Plaintiff, that Carroll would do the training. This was not what he was

   instructed to do. Plaintiff reiterated that Rivera was to schedule and conduct the training.

   Later that week Plaintiff was in a meeting with Wry and a few others, when the meeting

   ended Wry asked to speak with Plaintiff about the training and she wanted more




                                             8
        Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 9 of 25




   information. Plaintiff told her that she wanted Rivera to do the training. Plaintiff

   specifically requested that Rivera conduct the training and since Plaintiff was the

   Manager of the Department could make that decision and was hers to make. Wry was

   clearly trying to undermine her authority because she was African American.

16. A few weeks after the meeting with Wry, Plaintiff received an invitation to meet with

   Wry and Senter. They wanted to inform Plaintiff that she would no longer be managing

   the e-billing department and the department would be reporting directly to Wry. Plaintiff

   asked why that decision was made but did not receive an answer. Having that department

   taken from Plaintiff was very embarrassing, as she had been supervising the e-billing

   department since 2017 and it was clear that this scheme was hatched by Wry to further

   the racial discrimination.

17. In June 2019, a conference was held in Orlando Florida. Initially Plaintiff was not

   invited to attend with the firm. In prior years, the manager of the billing department

   would attend this conference which included seminars on the firm's soon to be new

   billing program, Aderant. Wry eventually invited the Plaintiff under the condition that

   she had to pay for her own registration, flight and hotel which Plaintiff would eventually

   be reimbursed from the firm. Plaintiff respectfully declined the opportunity as it was too

   much money for her to advance. Wry than suggested that the firm pay for the registration

   and flight on the company card, but Plaintiff had to book the hotel stay for which she

   would be reimbursed. Plaintiff agreed to go. Plaintiff was the only African American

   person from Dechert attending the conference and the only one obliged to pay in advance

   from her own funds. This was yet another example of the disparate treatment of the




                                             9
        Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 10 of 25




   Plaintiff by Wry in furtherance of the discriminatory conduct being done by Wry, in

   consort with Senter and supported by Dechert.

18. As the firm prepared for the migration from Elite to Aderant Plaintiff would attend in

   office meetings with the Dechert team and the Aderant consultants (AAC). If she asked

   questions Wry would often cut her off and try to finish her sentence as though she

   thought Plaintiff could not articulate her thoughts. The times that she was able to get a

   question out, when AAC would respond Wry would say in the open forum “do you now

   understand Celiena?” which was humiliating to Plaintiff because it created an impression

   of incompetency. This treatment was as a result of Wry’s ongoing discriminatory actions

   because Plaintiff was an African American woman.

19. Wry continued to give Plaintiff projects regarding Aderant with very tight deadlines

   knowing that the billing department was short staffed, and that Plaintiff was spending a

   great deal of time preparing billing, Plaintiff let Wry know on several occasions that she

   was being unfairly treated, being over worked with unrealistic deadlines and that she was

   the only person in billing being treated in such a manner.

20. December 2019 Plaintiffs performance evaluation stated that she “meets expectation"

   Wry demeaned Plaintiff’s efforts and contribution to the firm in the review write up

   although Plaintiff's efforts were above and beyond.

21. January 30, 2020, Plaintiff emailed Wry because she noticed when the Aderant

   consultants would talk about billing they would refer to Wry and co-worker Mack as

   though the Billing Manager was no longer being recognized. Wry demeaned Plaintiff by

   doing so. Plaintiffs team began questioning her role as department manager, despite

   Plaintiff’s stellar work. The mistreatment was due to her race.




                                            10
        Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 11 of 25




22. March 16, 2020, Plaintiff, and her team began working remotely due to the pandemic

   COVID-19. The billers were struggling with their assignment having to work only from

   their laptops. They did not have at home the equipment sufficient to perform their tasks

   effectively. Wry expected Plaintiff to assist the billers with their assignment until they

   received the additional office equipment. Wry made excessive requests for Plaintiff’s

   billing assistance and Plaintiff was overwhelmed with work. Often, Plaintiff stayed up

   working late nights making sure to meet all deadlines. No other similarly situated people

   were required to be overworked by the Firm.

23. Wry contacted Plaintiff to determine if she was maintaining her team’s moral during this

   time. When Wry realized that Plaintiff was meeting with the team without her knowledge

   she quickly requested to be in attendance.

24. Prior to working remotely, Plaintiff began conducting Aderant billing training and giving

   assignments to the team. She would travel to the DC and NY offices also to conduct

   sessions. Plaintiff only made it through one round of training sessions before Wry

   requested that Mack get involved in the training. There was no reason for Mack's

   attendance. Team members had started to questioned Plaintiff as to why Wry and Mack

   had to attend the training sessions.

25. Plaintiff was the manager of the billing team and was successful with her training, but

   Wry insisted that Mack conduct the sessions. Wry then requested that Plaintiff put

   together the training agendas for Mack. A billing member in the NY office was

   struggling with Aderant billing and specifically requested that the Department Manager

   Plaintiff provide her with one-on-one Aderant billing training. Wry found out about the

   struggling biller and called Plaintiff to have Mack do that training. Wry stated that a biller




                                            11
        Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 12 of 25




   told her that they were afraid to come to Plaintiff for assistance with Aderant for fear of

   “retribution”. Wry would not let Plaintiff speak with the individual who made the

   statement and insisted keep that anonymous. Plaintiff told Wry that this issue should be

   raised with HR because the allegations were very seriously. Wry quickly changed the

   story and said, “maybe the word retribution wasn’t used” Wry then said the biller

   probably felt uncomfortable because they did not want Plaintiff to know that they were

   not catching on to the Aderant billing. Wry said there was no need to involve HR. That

   conversation made Plaintiff feel very uneasy, Wry had yet again resorted to embellishing

   and trying to intimidate Plaintiff. Wry continued with the conversation as though she had

   never made false claim against Plaintiff and took no thought to Plaintiff feelings

   regarding what she said, or how Plaintiff was affected by it.

26. Prior to becoming the manager of the billing department during recruitment Plaintiff

   would interview a candidate in her role as supervisor, followed by the manager's

   interview, but when Plaintiff became the manager this all changed. Plaintiff would

   interview a candidate and then Wry would interview them as well. It was as though

   Plaintiff was still the supervisor and Wry the manager. They discussed feedback but Wry

   made the final decisions and worked with HR. Although Plaintiff held the title Billing

   Manager, she was never allowed the authority prior Billing Managers had, Wry clearly

   managed the billing department and expressed dominance over Plaintiff at every

   opportunity presented. Wry decided what authority was to be given to Plaintiff which was

   very limited. Plaintiff believes she was under such limitations and scrutiny because of

   Wry's opinion of Plaintiff as an African American person.




                                            12
        Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 13 of 25




27. In or around July 2020 against Plaintiff's better judgement, Wry made the decision to hire

   Goodger for the Billing Coordinator position in the DC office; Wry unfairly blamed

   Plaintiff for the resignation of Goodger and used it to negatively influence Plaintiff’s

   mid-year review. Wry was motivation for blaming Plaintiff was due to Plaintiff being

   African American.

28. August 2020 Plaintiff reported Wry’s harassment to Fico (Director, US Human

   Resources). Fico took notes and mentioned doing an investigation. At the scheduled

   meeting, instead of Fico being impartial as a representative of the Human Resource

   department, Fico showed bias toward Plaintiff and supported Wry by defending Wry’s

   obvious discriminatory conduct.

29. August 2020 Fico referred Plaintiff to Arokium (Director, Diversity, and Inclusion).

   Arokium provides support to employees that have been discriminated against within the

   firm. Plaintiff met with Arokium disclosing harassment from Wry. Arokium took some

   notes and mentioned doing an investigation. Arokium never followed up with Plaintiff.

30. October 2020 Wry scheduled Plaintiff mid-year review which included inaccurate

   accounts and falsified information in an effort to demean Plaintiff’s performance to

   prohibit Plaintiff’s continued growth and upward mobility within the firm.

31. December 2020 Plaintiff could no longer tolerate the harassment from Wry and decided

   to resign, thus being constructively discharged.

32. Plaintiff took necessary measures to bring awareness to the harassment and bias

   experienced by Wry by reporting Wry’s conduct to the firm’s Human Resource

   Department per firm policy, which there was no investigation, interference, or

   consequence for Wry’s actions and conduct.




                                            13
              Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 14 of 25




    33. The above is just some of the examples of unlawful discrimination, harassment, and

        retaliation to which the Defendants subjected the Plaintiff on a continuous and ongoing

        basis throughout Plaintiff’s employment.

    34. Plaintiff claims that the named Respondents unlawfully harassed, retaliated, and

        discriminated against Plaintiff on the basis of Plaintiff’s opposition to their unlawful

        employment practices.

    35. Plaintiff claims a continuous practice of discrimination and claims a continuing violation

        and makes all claims herein under the continuing violations doctrine.

    36. At all times material, Plaintiff opposed the discriminatory, harassing, and retaliatory

        conduct of the named Respondents, and made good-faith efforts to take corrective action

        the through the channels available to her as an employee of Respondent DECHERT LLP.

    37. At all times material, Plaintiff endured the discriminatory, harassing, and retaliatory

        conduct of the named Respondents as conditions of her continued employment with

        Respondents DECHERT LLP.



                                        FIRST COUNT
                             FOR DISCRIMINATION UNDER TITLE VII
                              AGAINST DEFENDANT DECHERT. LLP

        27.     Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above

paragraphs of this complaint.

        28.     Title VII states in relevant parts as follows: § 2000e-2. [Section 703](a) Employer

Practices It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer – (1) to fail or refuse to

hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any individual with

respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such

individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.”


                                                  14
             Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 15 of 25




       29.     Defendant, DECHERT, LLP engaged in unlawful employment practices

prohibited by 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq., by discriminating against Plaintiff because of his race

and color.

                                      SECOND COUNT
                            FOR DISCRIMINATION UNDER TITLE VII
                             AGAINST DEFENDANT DECHERT, LLP

       30.     Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above

paragraphs of this complaint.

       31.     Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. $2000e-3(a)

provides that it shall be unlawful employment practice for an employer:

       32.     “(1) to … discriminate against any of his employees … because [s]he has opposed

any practice made an unlawful employment practice by this subchapter, or because [s]he has

made a charge, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding,

or hearing under this subchapter.”

       33.     Defendant, DECHERT, LLP retaliated against Plaintiff because he opposed and

reported Defendants’ unlawful employment practices.

                                          THIRD COUNT
                                       FOR DISCRIMINATION
                                        UNDER STATE LAW
                                     AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS

       34.     Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above

paragraphs of this complaint.

       35.     The PHRA § 955 provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice:

"(a) For any employer because of the race, color, religious creed, ancestry, age, sex, national

origin or non-job related handicap or disability or the use of a guide or support animal because of

the blindness, deafness or physical handicap of any individual or independent contractor, to



                                                15
             Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 16 of 25




refuse to hire or employ or contract with, or to bar or to discharge from employment such

individual or independent contractor, or to otherwise discriminate against such individual or

independent contractor with respect to compensation, hire, tenure, terms, conditions or privileges

of employment or contract, if the individual or independent contractor is the best able and most

competent to perform the services required."

       36.     Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating

against the Plaintiff because of her race and color.

       37.     Plaintiff hereby states her claim against Defendants under all of the applicable

paragraphs of the PHRA § 955.

                                        FOURTH COUNT
                                       FOR RETALIATION
                                       UNDER STATE LAW
                                    AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS

       38.     Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above

paragraphs of this complaint.

       39.     PHRA § 955(d) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: " For

any person, employer, employment agency or labor organization to discriminate in any

manner against any individual because such individual has opposed any practice forbidden by

this act, or because such individual has made a charge, testified or assisted, in any manner, in any

investigation, proceeding or hearing under this act."

       40.     Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discharging,

retaliating, and otherwise discriminating against the Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s opposition to

the unlawful employment practices of his employer.




                                                 16
              Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 17 of 25




                                           FIFTH COUNT
                                      FOR AIDING & ABETTING
                                        UNDER STATE LAW
                                     AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS

        41.     Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above

paragraphs of this complaint.

        42.     PHRA § 955(e) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: " For

any person, employer, employment agency, labor organization or employee, to aid, abet, incite,

compel or coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory

practice, or to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with the provisions of this act or

any order issued thereunder, or to attempt, directly or indirectly, to commit any act declared by

this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice."

        43.     Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of PHRA

§955(e) by aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling, and coercing the discriminatory conduct.

                                   SIXTH COUNT
                      DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE PHILADELPHIA
              CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORDINANCE AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS

        44.     Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above

paragraphs of this complaint.

        45.     The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) provides that "It shall be

an unlawful discriminatory practice: “It shall be an unlawful employment practice to deny or

interfere with the employment opportunities of an individual based upon his or her race,

ethnicity, color, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition), sexual

orientation, gender identity, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, disability, marital status,

familial status, genetic information, or domestic or sexual violence victim status, including, but

not limited to, the following: (a) For any employer to refuse to hire, discharge, or otherwise


                                                   17
               Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 18 of 25




discriminate against any individual, with respect to tenure, promotions, terms, conditions or

privileges of employment or with respect to any matter directly or indirectly related to

employment."

         46.     Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) by creating and maintaining discriminatory

working conditions, and otherwise discriminating against Stone because of Stone’s race and

color.

         47.     Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all the applicable

paragraphs of Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance Chapter 9-1100.



                                     SEVENTH COUNT
                         DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE PHILADELPHIA
                             CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORDINANCE
                                AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS

         48.     Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above

paragraphs of this complaint.

         49.     The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(g) provides that it shall be

unlawful discriminatory practice: " For any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage, or

otherwise penalize, retaliate or discriminate in any manner against any person because he, she or

it has complied with the provisions of this Chapter, exercised his, her or its rights under this

Chapter, enjoyed the benefits of this Chapter, or made a charge, testified or assisted in any

manner in any investigation, proceeding or hearing hereunder"

         50.     Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(g) by discriminating against the Plaintiff

because of Plaintiff’s opposition to the unlawful employment practices of Plaintiff’s employer.


                                                 18
                Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 19 of 25




                                       EIGHTH COUNT
                           DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE PHILADELPHIA
                               CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORDINANCE
                                  AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS


          51.     Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above

paragraphs of this complaint.

          52.     The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) provides that it shall be

unlawful discriminatory practice: "For any person to aid, abet, incite, induce, compel or coerce

the doing of any unlawful employment practice or to obstruct or prevent any person from

complying with the provisions of this Section or any order issued hereunder or to attempt

directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this Section to be an unlawful employment

practice."

          53.     Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) by aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling

and coercing the above discriminatory, unlawful and retaliatory conduct.



                                         NINTH COUNT
                           Hostile Work Environment and Harassment
                         Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §2000e et. seq.
                           AGAINST DEFENDANT DECHERT, LLP

          54.     Plaintiff incorporates by refence the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth at length

herein.

          55.     Defendants are an employer under 42 U.S.C. §2000 et seq as they engage in an

industry affecting commerce and have 15 or more employees for each working day of 20 or more

calendar weeks in the current or preceding calendar year.



                                                   19
             Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 20 of 25




       56.     Plaintiff is a person and has a protected class in being African American.

       57.     Under 42 U.S.C.§2000e-2 it shall be unlawful employment practice for an

employer to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate

against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of

employment, because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex or national origin.

       58.     Defendant by and through Plaintiff’s supervisors made remarks about Plaintiff,

treated Plaintiff disparately by way of conduct motivated by discriminatory animus as set forth in

the Material Facts which have been incorporated into this Cause of Action.

       59.     The disparate treatment was clearly discriminatory based upon race and color.

       60.     The disparate treatment caused a hostile work environment for Plaintiff as the

treatment had an actionable impact on Plaintiff’s ability to work.

       61.     Plaintiff’s complaints about his treatment were reported to his supervisors and in

accordance with the Defendants procedures.

       62.     Defendant failed to address Plaintiff’s complaints of discrimination fairly and

properly.

       63.     As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s discrimination, Plaintiff has

suffered loss of wages including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss of amenities of

employment, out of pocket expenses, emotional damages, pain and suffering, alienation, loss of

confidence, loss of reputation, and other similar damages and harms, all to Stone’s great

detriment.

       64.     Defendant’s actions were willful and wanton and thus require imposition of

Punitive Damages.




                                                20
                Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 21 of 25




                                   TENTH COUNT
                               DISPARATE TREATMENT
                     CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964, 42 U.S.C.§2000e et. seq.
                              AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS

          65.     Plaintiff incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as set forth at length

herein.

          66.     Defendants discriminated and disparately treated Plaintiff, by and through its

officers, managers, and supervisors as follows:

          a.      Disparate discipline.

          b.      Disparate scheduling.

          c.      Disparate training and pay.

          d.      Constructive discharge

          e.      Disparate criticism of work performance where similarly situated non-African

Americans were not subject to the same, and

          f.      Other treatment that was wrongful and disparate on the base of race/color.

          67.     As a direct and proximate result of Defendants discrimination, Plaintiff has

suffered loss of wages including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss of amenities of

employment, out of pocket expenses, emotional damages, pain and suffering, alienation, loss of

confidence, loss of reputation, and other similar damages and harms, all to Plaintiff’s great

detriment.

          68.     Defendants, actions were willful and wanton and thus require imposition of

Punitive Damages.

          69.     Alternatively, as Defendants considered Plaintiff ‘s race in the foregoing

discrimination, Plaintiff is entitled to a charge of mixed-motive discrimination, which entitles

Plaintiff to an award of Attorney’s fees.


                                                   21
             Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 22 of 25




                                       ELEVENTH COUNT
                                         RETALIATION
                          Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.§200e et. seq.
                           AGAINST DEFENDANT DECHERT, LLP

       70.        Plaintiff incorporates the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth at length herein.

       71.     Defendant DECHERT retaliated against Plaintiff for making a complaint of

discrimination.

       72.     The temporal proximity between Plaintiff’s complaint and termination raises an

inference that the termination was retaliation, such that no further evidence of retaliation is

necessary.

       73.     As a direct and proximate cause of Defendant’s discrimination, Plaintiff suffered

loss of wages including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss of amenities of employment, out

of pocket expenses, emotional damages and harms, all of Plaintiff’s great detriment.

       74.     Defendants’ actions were willful and wanton and thus require the imposition of

Punitive Damages.

       75.     Defendants considered Plaintiff’s protected class in deciding to disparately treat

and/or terminate Plaintiff resulting in mixed-motive discrimination/retaliation, which entitles

Plaintiff to an award of attorney’s fees.

                                  TWELFTH COUNT
       Discrimination, Disparate Treatment, Hostile Work Environment, Retaliation
                 Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. §951 et. seq.
                             AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS

       76.     Plaintiff incorporates the foregoing paragraphs as if set forth at length herein.

       77.     Defendant DECHERT is an employer under the Pennsylvania Human Relations

Act as it employs citizens of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and because Defendant

DECHERT resides in Pennsylvania.



                                                   22
             Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 23 of 25




       78.     Plaintiff is protected under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act and has the

protected class of being African American (race) and color (black).

       79.     Defendant subjected Plaintiff to harassing, hostile work environment, disparately

treated Stone, retaliated against Plaintiff and otherwise discriminated against Plaintiff, all on the

basis of race and color as alleged.

       80.     As a direct and proximate cause of Defendant’s discrimination, Plaintiff has

suffered loss of wages including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss of amenities of

employment, out of pocket expenses, emotional damages, pain and suffering, alienation, loss of

confidence, loss of reputation, and other similar damages and harm, all to Stone’s great

detriment.

       81.     Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act.

                                 THIRTEENTH COUNT
                                   Vicarious Liability
                             AGAINST DEFENDANT DECHERT

       82.     At all times material, Defendant DECHERT employed all other individual

       Defendants named in this matter. DECHERT is vicariously liable for all of the actions of

       the individual Defendants as well as any other employees who may have contributed to

       the harm caused by the discrimination hereinbefore described.

                       AS A FOURTEENTH CAUSE OF ACTION
                   FOR DISCRIMINATION UNDER 42 U.S. CODE § 1981
                           (AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS)

   83. 42 U.S. Code § 1981 - Equal rights under the law states provides:

       (a)     All persons within the jurisdiction of the United States shall have the same right

in every State and Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, give evidence, and

to the full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of persons and property




                                                 23
                Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 24 of 25




as is enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be subject to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes,

licenses, and exactions of every kind, and to no other.

          (b)     For purposes of this section, the term “make and enforce contracts” includes the

making, performance, modification, and termination of contracts, and the enjoyment of all

benefits, privileges, terms, and conditions of the contractual relationship.

          (c)     The rights protected by this section are protected against impairment by

nongovernmental discrimination and impairment under color of State law.

          1.      Defendants constantly enforced a purposefully discriminatory pattern and practice

of depriving African-American individuals of the equal rights described therein, in further

violation of 42 U.S.C. §1981.

          2.      As a result of Defendants’ discrimination in violation of Section 1981, Plaintiff

has been denied the enjoyment of all benefits, privileges, terms, and conditions of Plaintiff’s

contractual relationship which provided substantial compensation and benefits, thereby entitling

him to injunctive and equitable monetary relief; and having suffered such anguish, humiliation,

distress, inconvenience and loss of enjoyment of life because of Defendants’ actions, thereby

entitling Plaintiff to compensatory damages.

          3.      As alleged above, Defendants acted with malice or reckless indifference to the

rights of the Plaintiff and copious other individuals named herein, thereby entitling Plaintiff to an

award of punitive damages.

          4.      Defendants violated the above and Plaintiff suffered numerous damages as a

result.

          5.      Plaintiff makes a claim against Defendants under all of the applicable paragraphs

of 42 U.S. Code § 1981.




                                                   24
            Case 2:21-cv-02702 Document 1 Filed 06/16/21 Page 25 of 25




       6.      Plaintiff claims Defendants both unlawfully discriminated against Plaintiff and

unlawfully retaliated against Plaintiff in violated of 42 USC 1981.

                                            JURY DEMAND

       Plaintiff requests a jury trial on all issues to be tried.

                                          PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, Stone demands judgment against Defendants, jointly, severally, or in

the alternative in an amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, including but not

limited to all emotional distress and back pay and front pay, punitive damages, liquidated

damages, statutory damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements of action; and for such

other relief as the Court deems just and proper.

Date: June 7, 2021                         DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC



                                           By: ____________________________
                                               Scott E. Diamond, Esq.
                                               1835 Market Street, Suite 2950
                                               Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
                                               Phone: (215) 391-4790
                                               scott@dereksmithlaw.com
                                               Attorneys for Plaintiff, Celiena McClelland




                                                   25
