Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/59967199/1/tillman-henley-v-tower-health/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in Tillman Henley v. TOWER HEALTH (E.D. Pa., 2:21-cv-02582) – CourtListener.com

                                 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                             EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA
----------------------------------------------------------------------X
YVETTE TILLMAN HENLEY,
                                                                        Civil Action No.
                                             Plaintiff,


                 -against-

TOWER HEALTH, DBA BRANDYWINE HOSPITAL,
and LISA MACMULLEN,


                                             Defendants.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------X

                                                COMPLAINT

        Plaintiff, Yvette Tillman Henley, by and through her undersigned counsel, hereby files this

Complaint against Defendants Tower Health, dba Brandywine Hospital, and respectfully alleges

upon information and belief, as follows:


                                         NATURE OF THE CASE


1.   Plaintiff complains pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as codified, 42 U.S.C.

     §§ 2000e to 2000e-17 (amended in 1972, 1978 and by the Civil Rights Act of 1991, Pub. L.

     No. 102-166 (“Title VII”)), 42 U.S.C. §1981 (“Section 1981) and the Pennsylvania Human

     Relations Act, as amended, 43 P.S. §§ 951, et. seq. (“PHRA” and also referred to as the “State

     Cause of Action”) and seeks damages to redress the injuries Plaintiff has suffered as a result

     of being discriminated and retaliated against by Defendants.
                                  JURISDICTION AND VENUE

2.   Jurisdiction of this action is conferred upon this Court as this action involves a federal question

     under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and Section 1981. The Court also has supplemental

     jurisdiction over the State Cause of Action.

3.   Venue is proper in this district based upon Defendants’ principal place of business within the

     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, within the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.


                                           THE PARTIES


4.   Plaintiff YVETTE M. TILLMAN HENLEY (hereinafter also referred to as Plaintiff and

     “HENLEY”) is an individual African American female who is a resident of the

     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

5.   Defendant, Tower Health, dba BRANDYWINE HOSPITAL (hereinafter also referred to as

     “BRANDYWINE”) is a domestic non-profit corporation existing under the laws of the

     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

6.   Defendant BRANDYWINE has its principal place of business located at 201 Reeceville Rd,

     Coatesville, PA 19320.

7.   At all times material, Defendant LISA MACMULLEN (hereinafter also referred to as

     “MACMULLEN”) was an employee at Defendant BRANDYWINE.

8.   At all times material, Defendant MACMULLEN was employed as a Director with supervisory

     authority at BRANDYWINE.

9.   At all times material, Defendant MACMULLEN held supervisory authority over Plaintiff.

                                        MATERIAL FACTS

10. Since October 2011, Plaintiff has been employed as a Registrar in the Emergency Room

     Registration Department at Brandywine Hospital.
                                                    2
11. On or about December 11, 2017, Plaintiff filed a dual Charge with the EEOC and

    Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”) alleging race discrimination,

    disability discrimination and retaliation (the “2017 Charge”).


12. On or about July 24, 2018, the EEOC issued Plaintiff a Right to Sue Letter.


13. On October 22, 2018, Plaintiff filed a federal complaint against Brandywine Hospital, LLC

    and Macmullen (the “Federal Litigation”) alleging claims under Title VII, the Pennsylvania

    Human Relations Act (“PHRA”) and the Family Medical Leave Act (“FMLA”).


14. The Federal Litigation is currently ongoing on appeal in the Third Circuit Court of Appeals.


15. During the course of the Federal Litigation, Defendants have retaliated against Plaintiff for

    asserting her rights under Title VII, the PHRA and the FMLA, as well as complaining about

    ongoing racial harassment, discrimination and the hostile work environment at Brandywine

    and specifically from Defendant Macmullen.


16. Moreover, Plaintiff has consistently complained to her immediate supervisor Christal Nowlin,

    an African American female), as well as Defendant Macmullen and Shelly Cuny, Human

    Resources Director, about the unfair, harassing, discriminatory and retaliatory conduct she has

    continuously endured prior to and during the Federal Litigation.


17. Since the filing of the Federal Litigation, Defendants, however, have consistently failed to

    fully and properly investigate Plaintiff’s complaints and/or implement a resolution to her

    complaints.


18. Defendants’ retaliatory conduct includes acts and conduct that can only be described as a

    “death by a thousand cuts” strategy to string together a series of complaints, accusations,

                                                3
    innuendos, mischaracterizations and criticisms that are unique to her job responsibilities and

    work environment that are all designed to “set up” Plaintiff to fail.


19. Such conduct includes, but is not limited to:


    a. unfairly blaming and/or disciplining Plaintiff for disputes with co-workers;

    b. acquiescing in petty behavior and conduct among Plaintiff’s co-workers in order to

        negatively influence her job performance;

    c. circumventing Plaintiff’s immediate supervisor (Christal Nowlin, an African American

        female) to negatively evaluate and discipline Plaintiff;

    d. failing to investigate Plaintiff’s complaints; and

    e. otherwise treating Plaintiff differently than her white co-employees.


20. Moreover, Defendant Macmullen unilaterally attempted to include negative comments on

    Plaintiff’s written performance evaluation unbeknownst to Plaintiff’s immediate supervisor,

    Christal Nowlin.


21. One of Plaintiff’s co-employees specifically complained (the “Complaining Co-Employee”)

    to Defendant Macmullen about the unfair and petty treatment that Plaintiff endured by several

    of her co-workers.


22. Defendant Macmullen ignored Plaintiff’s complaints and attempted to protect the co-

    employees who were involved in posting the pictures on social media.


23. The Complaining Co-Employee was concerned about complaining about Plaintiff’s unfair and

    harassing treatment because she too did not want to be treated similarly to Plaintiff for

    complaining about their behavior.


                                                 4
24. Defendants, however, did not fully investigate the complaint and allowed the petty and unfair

    behavior to continue against Plaintiff.


                              The October 29, 2020 Final Warning


25. In fact, on October 28, 2020, one of Plaintiff’s co-workers initiated a petty dispute with

    Plaintiff over some chairs in the registration area.


26. After a meeting with Plaintiff, Christal Nowlin, Defendant Macmullen, Shelly Cuny, and the

    other co-employee on October 28, 2020, the minor dispute was considered resolved and no

    discipline was issued to Plaintiff.


27. However, on October 29, 2020, Defendant Macmullen sent an email to one of Plaintiff’s third-

    party co-workers asking whether she had any knowledge about who initiated the petty dispute

    regarding the “seating.” In response, the third-party co-worker stated that she did not have

    any knowledge as to which employee initiated the dispute.


28. Notwithstanding that the dispute was resolved with Christal Nowlin and unsubstantiated by

    Defendant Macmullen, on October 29, 2020, Defendants issued Plaintiff a “Final Warning”

    for her alleged violation of the Brandywine’s Behavior and Performance Expectations Policy

    (“Final Warning”).


29. Although not reflected in the Final Warning, Plaintiff walked away from the confrontation

    and attempted to de-escalate an incident with the co-employee whom Plaintiff had complained

    to Christal Nowlin, Defendant Macmullen and Shelly Cuny, Human Resources Director,

    several months prior to the incident in October 2020.




                                                 5
30. Contrary to the description in the Final Warning, Christal Nowlin and Shelly Cuny, Human

    Resources Director commended Plaintiff for her efforts to de-escalate the incident, which was

    recorded on videotape. Defendant Macmullen was present during this exchange.


31. Notwithstanding Plaintiff’s attempt to walk away from the instigator and seek assistance from

    Christal Nowlin and Defendant Macmullen, Defendants issued Plaintiff the Final Warning.


32. Defendant Macmullen issued Plaintiff the Final Warning unilaterally without the knowledge,

    cooperation, or acquiescence of Plaintiff’s immediate supervisor, Christal Nowlin, who is also

    an African American woman.


33. Defendants failed to issue Plaintiff any counseling or a first warning for her alleged and

    unsubstantiated involvement in the incident which she in fact attempted to de-escalate.


34. In fact, Plaintiff has been one of the most productive employees in the Emergency Room

    Registration Department and has consistently received positive yearly and monthly

    performance evaluations and recognition for her production and good work.


35. Plaintiff has never received a final warning for behavior issues or similar threats of discipline

    in the nine years she has worked at Brandywine Hospital.


36. Per its express language, however, if Plaintiff violated the Final Warning at any time in the

    future, she would be terminated from her position.


37. Defendants issued Plaintiff a Final Warning which subjected her to termination and failed to

    provide Plaintiff with any lesser progressive discipline such as “counseling” or a “1st written

    warning” for this dispute.



                                                 6
38. The Final Warning was improperly issued, mischaracterized Plaintiff’s involvement in the

    underlying incident, and was nonetheless the first serious discipline she ever received during

    the course of her employment at Brandywine Hospital.


39. Accordingly, Defendants issued Plaintiff the Final Warning for the purposes of setting her up

    to fail so that they could have a manufactured reason to terminate her all in retaliation for her

    prior complaints and for asserting her rights in the Federal Litigation.


40. In response to the Final Warning, on December 2, 2020, Plaintiff filed an EEOC charge

    alleging retaliation, race and age discrimination (the “December 2, 2020 EEOC Charge”).


41. On March 8, 2021, the EEOC issued a Right to Sue Letter in regard to the December 2, 2020

    EEOC Charge.


                               The March 29, 2021 Termination

42. Defendants continued to wrongfully discriminate against Plaintiff because of her race, African

    American, and retaliate against her because of her 2017 Charge, the Federal Litigation and her

    prior complaints to Defendants.

43. In fact, as feared, Defendants terminated Plaintiff on March 29, 2021 for allegedly engaging

    in a verbal altercation with a white male Security Officer in the Emergency Room on or about

    March 6, 2021 (the “March 29, 2021 Termination”).

44. On or around March 6, 2021, one of the brothers of a Latino patient was allowed in the

    Emergency Department area to interpret English for his brother to complete the registration

    process.

45. The Security Officer engaged in a verbal altercation with the Spanish speaking Latino family

    members and sought to remove them from the Emergency Department waiting room.

                                                 7
46. The Security Officer aggressively questioned the Latino family and caused commotion in the

    registration area.

47. Plaintiff resolved the concerns of the Latino family members with the Security Officer and

    the patient’s nurse allowed one of the brothers of the Latino patient to continue to interpret

    English during the registration process.

48. Thereafter, the Security Officer approached Plaintiff and her co-workers about the verbal

    altercation and stated, “This is a problem because it was the Spanish guys and not the white

    people” involved in the verbal altercation.

49. In response, Plaintiff’s co-worker, who is Latina, was offended by the Security Officer’s

    comments about the “Spanish guys” and stated, “Could you remove yourself [from the

    registration area]?” and further stated, “I am speaking for my people. You are supposed to

    treat everyone the same across the board!”

50. Plaintiff intervened between her co-workers and the Security Officer in an attempt to de-

    escalate the situation which was occurring in the registration area.

51. Thereafter, Defendants purportedly conducted an investigation and determined that both

    Plaintiff and her co-workers misinterpreted the Security Officer’s comments about Latino and

    White patients.

52. Defendants then used this incident to terminate Plaintiff on March 29, 2021 for allegedly being

    involved in another verbal altercation since she was already on an improperly imposed Final

    Warning.

53. The written Corrective Action/Warning Notification Progressive Discipline Form dated

    March 29, 2021 (“Termination Notice”) stated:

       “On 3/7/21 you engaged in a verbal confrontation in the ED registration area with two other
       employees in front of other employees and possibly patients and visitors. This argument

                                                  8
       was over an inaccurate perception that certain visitors to the ED were mistreated by
       Security. Loud voices and disrespectful tones were directed by and between all
       participants. This incident made other employees to feel uncomfortable as well as concern
       (sic) for patients that might see or hear what was occurring.”

54. The Termination Notice is incorrect and mischaracterizes Plaintiff’s conduct.

55. It is specifically disputed that Plaintiff, her Latina co-worker and/or other co-workers had an

    “inaccurate perception that visitors to the ED were mistreated by Security.” Quite to the

    contrary, the white male Security Officer did in fact treat the Latino family and patient in an

    unfair and disrespectful manner.

56. Further, although the Termination Notice states that “Loud and disrespectful tones were

    directed by and between all participants”, which Plaintiff denies, Plaintiff was the only

    “participant” who was terminated.

57. In addition, Shelly Cuny required Christal Nowlin to sign the Termination Notice

    notwithstanding that Ms. Nowlin was not involved in the decision to terminate Plaintiff and

    in fact disagreed with the termination.

58. The March 29, 2021 Termination was in further retaliation of Plaintiff’s prior EEOC charges,

    Federal Litigation and internal complaints.

59. The March 29, 2021 Termination was also a continuing violation of the retaliatory and

    discriminatory conduct alleged in the December 2, 2020 EEOC Charge.

60. After the termination, Defendants failed to properly provide Plaintiff with notice of her

    termination of health benefits which placed Plaintiff in danger since she was not able to secure

    her medication for nearly a month.

61. As a result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiff feels extremely humiliated, degraded, victimized,

    embarrassed and emotionally distressed.




                                                  9
62. As a result of the acts and conduct complained of herein, Plaintiff has suffered and will continue

    to suffer the loss of income, the loss of salary, bonuses, benefits and other compensation which

    such employment entails, and Plaintiff also suffered future pecuniary losses, emotional pain,

    humiliation, suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.

63. As Defendants’ conduct has been malicious, willful, outrageous, and conducted with full

    knowledge of the law, Plaintiff demands punitive damages as against Defendants.

64. The above are just some examples of some of the discrimination and retaliation to which

    Defendants subjected Plaintiff.

65. The Defendants have exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination but also

    retaliation.



                                           COUNT I
                                (Race Discrimination – Title VII)

66. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this

    complaint.

67. Title VII states in relevant parts as follows: § 2000e-2. [Section 703](a) Employer practices It

    shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer – (1) to fail or refuse to hire or to

    discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any individual with respect to

    his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such

    individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.”

68. Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et

    seq., by discriminating and retaliating against Plaintiff because of her prior complaints of

    discrimination, hostile work environment and retaliation.

69. Defendants created a hostile work environment for Plaintiff.


                                                  10
70. Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for complaining about the above discrimination and

    filing the EEOC Charge and Federal Litigation.

                                              COUNT II
                                     (Retaliation under Title VII)

71. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this

    complaint.

72. Title VII states in relevant parts as follows: § 2000e-2. [Section 703](a) Employer practices It

    shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer – (1) to fail or refuse to hire or to

    discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any individual with respect to

    his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such

    individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.”

73. Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et

    seq., by discriminating and retaliating against Plaintiff because of her prior complaints of

    discrimination, hostile work environment and retaliation.

74. Defendants created a hostile work environment for Plaintiff.

75. Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for complaining about the above discrimination and

    filing the EEOC Charge and Federal Litigation.

                                  COUNT III
                 FOR DISCRIMINATION AND RETALIATION UNDER PHRA

76. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this

    complaint.

77. The PHRA § 955 provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: "(a) For any

    employer because of the race, color, religious creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or non-

    job related handicap or disability or the use of a guide or support animal because of the



                                                  11
    blindness, deafness or physical handicap of any individual or independent contractor, to refuse

    to hire or employ or contract with, or to bar or to discharge from employment such individual

    or independent contractor, or to otherwise discriminate against such individual or independent

    contractor with respect to compensation, hire, tenure, terms, conditions or privileges of

    employment or contract, if the individual or independent contractor is the best able and most

    competent to perform the services required."

78. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating against the

    Plaintiff because of her race, African-American, retaliating against her, and creating a hostile

    work environment.

79. Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for complaining about the above discrimination and

    filing the EEOC Charge and Federal Litigation.

80. Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all of the applicable paragraphs of

    the PHRA §955.

                                   COUNT IV
                      FOR AIDING AND ABETTING UNDER STATE LAW


81. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this

    complaint.

82. PHRA § 955(e) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: " For any person,

    employer, employment agency, labor organization or employee, to aid, abet, incite, compel or

    coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice,

    or to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with the provisions of this act or any

    order issued thereunder, or to attempt, directly or indirectly, to commit any act declared by

    this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice."



                                                12
83. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of PHRA § 955(e) by

    aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling and coercing the discriminatory and retaliatory conduct.

                                COUNT V
            RACE DISCRIMINATION AND RETALIATION - SECTION 1981

84. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this

    complaint.

85. Plaintiff, as an African American female, is a member of a protected class, and thus, subject

    to the protections under Section 1981.

86. By the conduct described above, Defendants intentionally deprived Plaintiff of the same rights

    as are enjoyed by white citizens to the creation, performance, enjoyment, and all benefits and

    privileges, of their contractual employment relationship with Defendants, in violation of 42

    U.S.C. §1981.

87. Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for complaining about the above discrimination and

    filing the EEOC Charge and Federal Litigation.

88. Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff in violation of Section 1981.

89. Defendants’ action and omissions were also malicious, reckless, callous and deliberated

    indifferent to Plaintiff’s federally protected rights and shocks the conscience.

90. Defendants acted in concert and joint action with each other.



                                           JURY DEMAND

       Plaintiff requests a jury trial on all issues to be tried.




                                                    13
                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment against Defendants in an amount to be

determined at the time of trial plus interest, including but not limited to all emotional distress and

back pay and front pay, punitive damages, liquidated damages, compensatory damages, statutory

damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements of action; and for such other relief in law or

equity as the Court deems just and proper, including injunctive relief.




                                               By: /s/ Christopher R. Booth, Jr.
                                                  Christopher R. Booth, Jr., Esq.
                                                  1835 Market Street, Suite 2950
                                                  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
                                                  (215) 518-6683
                                                  christopher@dereksmithlaw.com


Dated: June 7, 2021




                                                 14
