Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/18756409/1/jacobsen-v-meron-medical-llc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in Jacobsen v. Meron Medical, LLC (E.D. Pa., 2:20-cv-06357) – CourtListener.com

Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 1 of 17
Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 2 of 17
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 3 of 17




                      IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

JESSICA L. JACOBSEN                            :
            Plaintiff                          :       CIVIL ACTION NO.
            v.                                 :
MERON MEDICAL, LLC                             :
     and                                       :
INSPERITY PEO SERVICES, L.P                    :       JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
            Defendants                         :

                                           COMPLAINT

I.     INTRODUCTION

       1. Plaintiff, Jessica L. Jacobsen (JJacobsen), is suing her former employer, Meron

Medical, LLC (Meron), for sex discrimination, sexual harassment and retaliation. Jacobsen is

also suing Meron’s outsourced human resources partner and joint employer, Insperity PEO

Services, L.P. (Insperity), for retaliation. Jacobsen brings this action under Title VII of the Civil

Rights Act of 1964, as amended by the Civil Rights Act of 1991, (Title VII) and the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, (PHRA). Meron subjected Jacobsen to a sexually harassing

and gender discriminatory hostile work environment. After she complained to Meron and then to

Insperity, Meron and Insperity conducted a slipshod investigation and then terminated Jacobsen

in retaliation for her complaints. Jacobsen seeks back pay, reinstatement or front pay, loss of

benefits, compensatory and punitive damages, interest, costs, negative tax consequence damages,

injunctive and declaratory relief and attorneys’ fees/expenses from Meron and Insperity.

II.    JURISDICTION AND VENUE

       2. This Court has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331 and 1343

and Title VII. Furthermore, Defendants’ conduct with regard to Jacobsen violated the PHRA,

and the pendant jurisdiction of this Court is invoked to remedy those violations.
          Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 4 of 17




        3. Jacobsen has exhausted all remedies available to her as set forth in Title VII and the

PHRA by timely filing a charge on December 17, 2019 with the Equal Employment Opportunity

Commission (EEOC), which charge was dual filed with the Pennsylvania Human Relations

Commission. The EEOC issued a notice of right to sue to Jacobsen on October 30, 2020. This

action is filed within 90 days of Jacobsen’s receipt of the EEOC’s notice of right to sue.

        4. Venue is proper in the Eastern District of Pa. because Jacobsen’s claims arose in this

judicial district.

III.    PARTIES

        5. Jacobsen is a female 36 years of age who resides in Southampton, PA. Jacobsen was

married in August 2019 and she changed her last name from Malloy to Jacobsen in July 2020.

        6 Jacobsen worked at Meron’s parent company, M&S Centerless Grinding, Inc. (M&S),

and then Meron from March 2015 through October 2019.

        7. Meron was formed in about 2013. Meron provides high level grinding solutions for the

development and production of advanced therapies in the medical device industry. Meron is a

Pennsylvania limited liability company. Malloy worked at Meron’s office and warehouse located

in Warminster, Bucks County, PA.

        8. In about December 2019/January 2020, M&S and Meron merged with KVI Medical

and a new company called KMM Group, Ltd. was formed as of around January 1, 2020. Upon

information and belief, Meron remains an ongoing business and existing legal entity and that is

why Meron is named in the caption and not KMM Group, Ltd.

        9. Insperity provides human resources compliance, administration and support services to

businesses like Meron. Insperity is a Delaware limited partnership with an office located in

Conshohocken, Montgomery County, PA.




                                                 2
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 5 of 17




       10. At all times relevant to this Complaint, Meron and Insperity were employers as

defined in Title VII and the PHRA. Additionally, Meron and Insperity were joint employers of

Jacobsen.

IV.    FACTUAL BACKGROUND

       11. In March 2015 Jacobsen started working at M&S as the Office Manager.

       12. In May 2015, Jacobsen brought to the attention of M&S President, John Shegda

(Shegda), that Michelle Martin (Martin), Operations Manager, was hiding bills that she was not

paying. Jacobsen confronted Martin and she tried to deny her wrongdoing. When Jacobsen spoke

with Shegda about Martin, he told her that Martin had issues with other women working at

M&S. At the time, Jacobsen was the only other woman working at M&S.

       13. About a year later, Shegda transferred Jacobsen to work for Meron. Shegda is also

President of Meron.

       14. In preparation for Jacobsen to transfer to Meron, Shegda spoke with her about Tony

Aoun (Aoun), Meron’s Production Manager. Shegda warned her about Aoun’s behavior and how

he can be difficult to deal with. Shegda also warned Jacobsen that Aoun tends to be old school

and chauvinistic.

       15. Jacobsen learned that Aoun had previous issues with Martin and he eventually said ‘I

will never have a woman as a boss.’ Shegda was confident that because Jacobsen was a strong

woman she could handle Aoun and they could work well together.

       16. Shegda later told Jacobsen in early 2018 that she was one of the members of the

company on the board of directors in his succession plan that would make decisions if something

happened to him.




                                                3
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 6 of 17




       17. Once Jacobsen started at Meron, she had repeated first-hand experience of Aoun’s

sexist and sexually harassing conduct.

       18. For example, in about the Spring of 2017, Jacobsen was going through a divorce. She

and Aoun were in the Meron kitchen when Aoun said to her “you know if I wasn’t married, me

and you would hook up.” Jacobsen was caught off guard and told Aoun that would never happen

and she doubted Aoun’s wife Mel would appreciate him saying that. Aoun became angry and

told Jacobsen that it would happen and probably only once because they would fight. He went on

to say if they were ever out at a bar together it would definitely happen. Jacobsen told Aoun she

would never hook up with a co-worker and definitely not him. Aoun was so angry with Jacobsen

after this exchange that he wouldn’t talk to her for two weeks afterward.

       19. A few months later and during the summer of 2017, Jacobsen began dating. Aoun

became obsessed with her personal life. He repeatedly asked her who she was dating. He asked

her about when she was going on dates, does she have a picture of the guy, what does he do for a

living. Aoun’s probing of Jacobsen progressed to him asking her if she had sex and how big of a

‘dick’ the guy had. Aoun was persistent in his aggressive and perverse questioning of Jacobsen.

This made Jacobsen so uncomfortable that she did not know what to do so she would typically

just agree with whatever Aoun was saying to appease him and then she’d walk away.

       20. Aoun would also incessantly talk about his personal life, particularly about when he

was single. He told Jacobsen about how many girls he used to ‘bang’ when he was single and he

was jealous now that she was single. He told Jacobsen graphic details about his sex life and how

he treated women like doormats. He told her about how he met his wife on his boat and that

when they were dating he got oral sex from another girl while his wife-to-be was above deck.

Jacobsen did not ask for Aoun to tell her any of this. She did not ask to be questioned about her




                                                 4
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 7 of 17




own personal life. This made her extremely uncomfortable. She was in a vulnerable position and

Aoun took advantage of her. She was a single mother going through a divorce who was trying to

figure out a new life and wanted to escape her personal challenges while she was at work.

       21. In a July 2017 group text, Aoun said ‘never send a girl out to do a man’s job.’

       22. Jacobsen was the only female in the building at Meron during the day and Aoun

treated her differently than all of the male employees. Two women had previously worked at

Meron, and Aoun said he did not want them there and that women don’t belong in the shop.

       23. Around this time, Jacobsen spoke with Susan Manno, who was an HR representative

with Insperity. Ms. Manno had visited Meron on multiple occasions. Ms. Manno told Shegda

that Aoun had no emotional intelligence, was visibly chauvinistic and had no experience working

with women. Shegda did not take this feedback seriously and Aoun never received any coaching

or training to deal with his sexist conduct.

       24. In May 2018, Aoun verbally lashed out at Jacobsen. He yelled at her saying ‘Shut up!

I don’t like you! No one likes you, you don’t belong here!’ He said that she was the cause of all

of the drama in the shop. Jacobsen complained to Shegda and he seemed annoyed that she was

complaining to him about Aoun’s harassing and sexist conduct.

       25. On July 24, 2018, Aoun commented that if Jacobsen wore certain pants to work that

‘the guys will walk around with boners all day.’

       26. On January 15, 2019, which was a Tuesday, Jacobsen took a day off. On Tuesdays,

Meron had weekly values meeting. At the next values meeting later in January, Jacobsen heard

Aoun and some of the other men talking about how they enjoyed the meeting last week since it

was all guys and they were able to vent about their significant others or in-laws without any

women around.




                                                   5
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 8 of 17




       27. On April 26, 2019, Meron and M&S had a company picnic. During the picnic, Aoun

told Jacobsen about something that happened over the weekend that he was proud of. He told her

about how he and his wife were out on Saturday night and ended up at an M&S co-worker’s

house. Aoun said he and his wife were parked outside and got naked and started having sex. He

said one of the guys from the shop opened his truck’s door and saw he and his wife naked and

having sex. Jacobsen was offended by Aoun telling her this.

       28. On July 1, 2019 at a dashboard meeting, Shegda questioned Jacobsen about inventory

numbers she presented that were lower than numbers previously provided by Aoun. Shegda was

totally supportive of Aoun, who was on vacation and not present at this meeting. Shegda belittled

Jacobsen in front of her peers and said that ‘maybe you don’t understand how to do inventory.’

       29. On August 20, 2019, Aoun asked Jacobsen if she was planning to have kids. He knew

she was getting married at the end of the month. He had asked her this several times before and

she was offended every time he asked her about this. Jacobsen believed Aoun only wanted to

know if she was planning to have kids because he probably thought she would just quit after

becoming a mother.

       30. In addition to the sexually harassing and gender discriminatory conduct described

above, throughout Jacobsen’s tenure at Meron, Aoun made repeated sexist comments, including

telling her on days he thought she was unpleasant that ‘you must be getting your period’ or ‘it

must be that time of the month.’ Whenever Jacobsen returned to the office after taking time off

or working from home, Aoun would say things like ‘we love when you aren’t here, we get to pee

with the door open.’ Aoun commented about how Jacobsen dressed by saying she looked

frumpy. He commented about her breasts saying that ‘the first thing guys notice about you is




                                                6
           Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 9 of 17




your boobs.’ He told her about his wife having breast implants and said ‘you definitely don’t

have to worry about that.’

          31. After enduring pervasive sexist behavior from Aoun and Shegda refusing to take

prompt or effective remedial action in response to her complaints, Jacobsen emailed Shegda

about Aoun on September 16, 2019 as follows:

From: Jessica Malloy
Sent: Monday, September 16, 2019 8:57 AM
To: John Shegda
Subject: Please read

John,

After much reflection on the uncomfortable issues with Tony, more specifically, the incident
that occurred during this past summer wherein Tony disrespected me verbally and acted
unprofessionally. Since that time, there has been a disengagement in the internal business
communications between me, you and Tony that are indeed relevant to my responsibilities and
duties. You are unresponsive to my emails, not interacting with me on a daily basis, I have been
removed from group text messages and my requests to communicate with you have been
ignored. The air of hostility is evident. The pending merger with KVI is being talked about by
Tony with others and I have not been included. I am a Manager and should be included in a
business changing event. I am a key team player.

The disrespect and hostile actions cannot be excused by your labeling him "Chauvinistic". That
is unacceptable on all fronts. It is evident that I have been treated differently and it is becoming
uncomfortable for me and inflicting mental distress.

I would very much like a resolution.

Thank you,

Jessica

          32. Shegda responded as follows:

From: John Shegda
Sent: Monday, September 16, 2019 10:32 AM
To: Jessica Malloy
Subject: RE: Please read




                                                 7
            Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 10 of 17




Jessica,

This is all surprising to me. I truly am sorry that you feel this way, and that you feel that you
have been caused distress. I think it would be best to sit and discuss in person, but it seems to
me that some issues you mention have been at work under the surface for some significant
amount of time. It would appear that our recent talks, like the one about your need to change
your schedule, did not address issues that you were feeling, and that you were not comfortable
to share them with me. I think, in the best interest of all involved, that a professional HR person
should be in the room when we talk. Insperity has been contacted on the matter. I will let you
know when our representative is available to come and meet with us. Hopefully it will be today
or tomorrow.

Hope to resolve this quickly.

Regards,

John Shegda
M&S Centerless Grinding/Meron Medical
215-675-4144 - w (M&S)
215-366-3020 - w (Meron)
215-778-9566 - c
www.msgrinding.com
www.meronmedical.com

           33. The next day on September 17, 2019 Jacobsen spoke with Sherice Sargent (Sargent),

Human Resources Specialist, Client Services, at Insperity. Sargent told Jacobsen that Shegda had

sent her the email she sent him the day before. Jacobsen reviewed with Sargent why she had

complained to Shegda. She told her she feels like she is being cut out of the equation because

they don’t want to deal with her because she is the only woman. She said she is being outcast and

shunned from the management team. She said that Shegda has been retaliating against her since

she complained to him last year about Aoun.

           34. Also on September 17, 2019, Shegda led a company values meeting during which he

said the following. He stated that Meron and M&S were going to merge with KVI Medical. He

said that the plan was to join the companies together in January (2020). Shegda said no one had

anything to be worried about, this was going to be a good thing as now Meron would be better


                                                  8
        Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 11 of 17




supported and given more opportunities through KVI’s customers. Additionally, Shegda ensured

the team that everyone will have a job as this was going to create more work.

       35. Two days later on September 19, 2019, Jacobsen had a conference call with Shegda

and Sargent. Jacobsen was with Shegda and Sargent was on the phone. Jacobsen asked Shegda

why is she being excluded from the management team and he could not give a straight answer.

Shegda said he does not know what’s happening with Jacobsen’s role. Jacobsen said that Aoun is

taunting her about her not being involved in the merger transition discussions. She said ‘Tony

doesn’t like me because I am a strong woman, that is why I am being left out.’ Shegda said he

was disappointed Jacobsen had not come to him about these issues previously, and she reminded

him and Sargent that she had and Shegda had not done anything in response to her prior

complaints. Both Shegda and Sargent talked down to Jacobsen throughout this meeting.

       36. After the conference call, Jacobsen had a separate one on one call with Sargent.

Sargent told Jacobsen that she put the issue out there and now it’s up to Shegda. Jacobsen told

Sargent she feels like she is being demoted without being told for no reason other than Aoun

does not like her because she’s a woman. Jacobsen told Sargent that Shegda is now really mad at

her for bringing up these issues.

       37. The next day on September 20, 2019, Shegda came into Jacobsen’s office and said

they had a meeting with Sargent. Jacobsen had not heard from anyone about this meeting.

Shegda briefly spoke with Sargent on his cell phone and then told Jacobsen to call her. When

Jacobsen called Sargent, she told Jacobsen that Shegda is offering her an option of two weeks

paid leave since he is leaving the country and Aoun needs to be at the shop. Sargent told

Jacobsen this was a generous offer and she should take it. Jacobsen told her that she feels further

outcast by this and she told her that this was being offered to her because Shegda will not be




                                                 9
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 12 of 17




available for damage control if the situation were to escalate between Aoun and her. Jacobsen

asked Sargent if she could think about this over the weekend and Sargent agreed.

       38. Jacobsen spoke with Sargent the morning of September 23, 2019. Shegda was present

for this call. Jacobsen told Sargent that she had to decline the two weeks paid leave because she

felt like it further outcasts her from her co-workers and the company, that she will have work to

do when she returns, there will be no coverage for her while she’s away and as long as everyone

acts professionally there should not be an issue.

       39. Shegda interjected and said he understood but did not accept it. He said he was

worried that this situation will escalate, Aoun and Jacobsen cannot exist in the same building, he

(Aoun) HAS to be there, and Shegda can’t leave the country thinking the situation will escalate.

Shegda said he spoke with Aoun and he denies taunting Jacobsen and has no idea what she is

talking about. Shegda said he was not willing to accept this and it is not a solution for her to stay

at work. Sargent chimed in and said Jacobsen would rather take a paid leave than an unpaid

leave, which is what she claimed most employers would do. Jacobsen said ‘this is a violation of

my rights, you cannot force me into a leave of absence. I am feeling like I am in the wrong here.’

       40. Shegda interrupted Jacobsen and said ‘I am stopping you now.’ Shegda went on to

say that he is a male and he can be oblivious. He also said he does not believe that the issues

between Aoun and Jacobsen can be worked out. He went on to claim that Jacobsen has strained

relationships with every person on the transition team (something that he had never said before,

nor had anyone else). Jacobsen told Sargent this was retaliation and Sargent said she was making

a note of it. Shegda said he hoped this would be a two week period to relieve stress but if

Jacobsen doesn’t cooperate he’s not sure. Shegda said Jacobsen would tentatively be allowed to

return to work on October 7 or 8.




                                                    10
        Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 13 of 17




       41. Later that morning, Jacobsen sent an email to Lauren Schoon (Schoon), the Director

of HR at Insperity’s Conshohocken office. Schoon is Sargent’s manager. Jacobsen emailed

Schoon because she felt Sargent was not helping her or taking her seriously and she wanted to

talk to someone else. Jacobsen complained that she was being retaliated and discriminated

against and what happened to her is a violation of her rights. Schoon told Jacobsen she would

respond to her, however she never did.

       42. Later that same day, Sargent confirmed that Meron was forcing Jacobsen to take a

two week leave of absence during which time she was not supposed to do any work. Further

showing the retaliatory nature of this forced leave of absence, Sargent provided Jacobsen with

information about an employee assistance plan, clearly implying that it was Jacobsen who had

the problem for raising a complaint of sex discrimination, harassment and retaliation.

       43. Jacobsen responded to Sargent’s September 23 email and said that the ‘decision’ to

place her on a leave of absence was made against her will and has caused her an extreme amount

of duress.

       44. The next day on September 24, 2019, Jacobsen emailed Frankie Williams (Williams),

Insperity’s EEO Specialist who was purportedly investigating Jacobsen’s sex discrimination and

harassment complaint. In her email, Jacobsen attached the August 2017 text message exchange

where Aoun had said ‘Never send a girl out to do a man’s job’. Jacobsen had spoken with

Williams earlier that day to give her the background of her current situation. Williams told

Jacobsen she was going to investigate her complaint.

       45. On October 7, 2019, after having endured a number of calls with Insperity

representatives where Jacobsen was interrupted and attacked like she was the bad guy, she had

the below email exchange with Insperity.




                                                11
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 14 of 17




On Oct 7, 2019, at 12:38 PM, Jessica Tarpey <jtarpey84@gmail.com> wrote:
>>> Hello,
>>>
>>> After my last call with Sherice [Sargent] at 11:45 this morning that she ended by hanging up
on me, I will no longer receive any further phone calls from Insperity. This is my personal cell
phone number that I pay for and the matters being discussed are work related. The calls I have
been receiving from Insperity have left me feeling attacked and emotionally abused. I am often
interrupted and left feeling accused, when I have done nothing wrong in this situation.
Expressing a legitimate concern at my workplace and asking for a solution is no cause to be
treated in such a manner. After these calls I am experiencing distress and feel threatened.
Human resources is supposed to help with these matters, not make them worse.
>>>
>>> All communication will be done via email from here on.
>>>
>>> Thank you,

>>>
>>> Jessica

>> On Oct 7, 2019, at 5:56 PM, Sherice Sargent <Sherice.Sargent@insperity.com> wrote:
>>
>> Hi Jessica
>> I am in receipt of your request. As a result, please accept this email as notification of your
return to work schedule and meeting invite for tomorrow, Tuesday October 8, 2019. Your
arrival time will be 3p. John and I will meet to discuss next steps.
>>
>> Feel free to email any questions.
>>
>> Regards,
>> Sherice Sargent
>>
>> Sent from my iPhone

        46. Jacobsen’s return to work meeting was then moved from October 8 to October 9.

        47. On October 8, 2019, the day before Jacobsen was scheduled to return to work,

Williams emailed her to say that her ‘investigation’ revealed that Jacobsen was not discriminated

or retaliated against.

        48. On October 9, Jacobsen emailed Williams before she was scheduled to attend a return

to work meeting with Shegda and Sargent. In her October 9 email, Jacobsen provided Williams



                                                 12
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 15 of 17




with additional information to support her discrimination, harassment and retaliation complaint

against both Meron and Insperity.

        49. When Jacobsen returned to work on October 9, she had a meeting in the morning with

Shegda and Sargent. Both were physically present. Jacobsen was informed she was being

terminated.

        50. Meron subjected Jacobsen to a severe or pervasive sexually hostile and gender

discriminatory hostile work environment that eventually also became a retaliatory hostile work

environment.

        51. Meron fired Jacobsen in retaliation for her repeated harassment and discrimination

complaints and because she’s a woman.

        52. Insperity fired Jacobsen in retaliation for her repeated harassment and discrimination

complaints

        53. Jacobsen has suffered, is now suffering and will continue to suffer emotional distress,

embarrassment, humiliation, inconvenience, mental anguish, career damage and other losses as a

direct result of Meron’s and Insperity’s illegal conduct.

        54. Meron and Insperity engaged in intentional discrimination against Jacobsen with

malice or reckless indifference to her rights under Title VII.

V.      CLAIMS

     Count I – Gender Discrimination/Hostile Work Environment (Title VII and PHRA)
                                   Jacobsen v. Meron

        55. Paragraphs 1 through 54 are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

        56. The acts, failures to act, practices and policies of Meron set forth above constitute

gender discrimination/gender-based hostile work environment in violation of Title VII and the

PHRA.



                                                 13
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 16 of 17




       57. As a result of Meron’s illegal gender discrimination, Jacobsen has suffered harms and

losses in the form of back pay and benefits, front pay and benefits and emotional/mental distress

including anxiety, stress, humiliation, career damage and embarrassment.

       WHEREFORE, Jacobsen demands judgment in her favor and against Meron for

compensatory damages, back pay, reinstatement or front pay, lost benefits, negative tax

consequence damages, punitive damages (under Title VII only), attorney’s fees plus costs,

declaratory relief that the conduct engaged in by Meron violated Jacobsen’s civil rights,

equitable/injunctive relief directing Meron to cease any and all unlawful gender discrimination,

and such other relief as the Court shall deem proper.

                         Count II – Retaliation (Title VII and PHRA)
                                     Jacobsen v. Meron

       58. Paragraphs 1 through 54 are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

       59. The acts, failures to act, practices and policies of Meron set forth above constitute

retaliation (retaliatory hostile work environment and retaliatory termination) in violation of Title

VII and the PHRA.

       60. As a result of Meron’s illegal retaliation, Jacobsen has suffered harms and losses in

the form of back pay and benefits, front pay and benefits and emotional distress including

anxiety, stress, humiliation, career damage and embarrassment.

       WHEREFORE, Jacobsen demands judgment in her favor and against Meron for

compensatory damages, back pay, front pay in lieu of reinstatement, lost benefits, negative tax

consequence damages, punitive damages (under Title VII only), attorney’s fees plus costs,

declaratory relief that the conduct engaged in by Meron violated Jacobsen’s civil rights,

equitable/injunctive relief directing Meron to cease any and all unlawful retaliation, and such

other relief as the Court shall deem proper.



                                                 14
         Case 2:20-cv-06357-GAM Document 1 Filed 12/18/20 Page 17 of 17




                         Count III – Retaliation (Title VII and PHRA)
                                     Jacobsen v. Insperity

        61. Paragraphs 1-54 are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

        62. The acts, failures to act, practices and policies of Insperity set forth above constitute

retaliation (retaliatory hostile work environment and retaliatory termination) in violation of Title

VII and the PHRA.

        63. As a result of Insperity’s illegal retaliation, Jacobsen has suffered harms and losses in

the form of back pay and benefits, front pay and benefits and emotional distress including

anxiety, stress, humiliation, career damage and embarrassment.

        WHEREFORE, Jacobsen demands judgment in her favor and against Insperity for

compensatory damages, back pay, front pay in lieu of reinstatement, lost benefits, negative tax

consequence damages, punitive damages (under Title VII only), attorney’s fees plus costs,

declaratory relief that the conduct engaged in by Insperity violated Jacobsen’s civil rights,

equitable/injunctive relief directing Insperity to cease any and all unlawful retaliation, and such

other relief as the Court shall deem proper.



                                       Respectfully submitted,

                               By:      /s/ Scott M. Pollins
                                       Scott M. Pollins/ Pa. Atty. Id. No. 76334
                                       Pollins Law
                                       303 W. Lancaster Ave., Ste. 1C
                                       Wayne, PA 19087
                                       (610) 896-9909 (phone)/(610) 896-9910 (fax)
                                       scott@pollinslaw.com (email)

Date:    12/18/2020                    Attorney for Plaintiff, Jessica L. Jacobsen




                                                  15
