Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/18605642/1/foster-v-beaumont-retirement-services-inc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in FOSTER v. BEAUMONT RETIREMENT SERVICES, INC. (E.D. Pa., 2:20-cv-05505) – CourtListener.com

Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 1 of 18
           Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 2 of 18




                  IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
                       EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


                                                      :
Robert Foster                                         :       CIVIL ACTION LAW
566 Larchwood Avenue                                  :
Upper Darby, PA 19082                                 :
                               PLAINTIFF              :
                                                      :
      v.                                              :       NO.
                                                      :
Beaumont Retirement Services, Inc.                    :       JURY TRIAL
601 N. Ithan Avenue                                   :       DEMANDED
Bryn Mawr, PA 19010                                   :
                           DEFENDANTS                 :
                                                      :
                                                      :

                                          COMPLAINT

                                PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

      1. Plaintiff, Robert Foster (“Plaintiff Foster”), by and through his counsel, brings this

            action against Defendant Beaumont Retirement Services, Inc. for racial

            discrimination and retaliation in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

            and 1991, 42 U.S.C. Section 2000e-2, et seq., the Civil Rights Act of 1871, 42 U.S.C.

            Section 1981, and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 Pa.C.S.A. Section 951,

            et seq.

      2. This is an action for damages, attorney’s fees, and other relief on behalf of Plaintiff, a

            former employee of Defendant Beaumont Retirement Services, Inc., (Defendant

            Beaumont”) who has been harmed by the Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory

            actions, ultimately resulting in the termination of his employment as set forth below.

                                     JURISDICTION AND VENUE

      3. Because this case involves federal questions and violations of Plaintiff’s civil rights,

            jurisdiction in this Court is asserted under the provisions of 28 U.S.C. Section 1331.
  Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 3 of 18




4. This Court has supplemental jurisdiction over the state claim asserted herein pursuant

   to 28 U.S.C. Section 1367.

5. Venue is proper in this Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. Section 1391 as a substantial part

   of the events giving rise to Plaintiff’s claims occurred in this judicial district.

6. Plaintiff Foster has exhausted his administrative remedies against the Defendant

   Beaumont.

7. On August 21, 2020, Plaintiff was issued a Notice of Right to Sue by the United

   States Equal Employment Commission, and this Complaint is being timely filed. A

   copy Plaintiff Foster’s August 21, 2020, Notice of Right to Sue is attached as Exhibit

   “A”.

                                           PARTIES

8. Plaintiff Foster is an African American adult residing at 566 Larchwood Avenue,

   Upper Darby, Pennsylvania 19082.

9. Defendant Beaumont is a retirement community registered to do business in the

   Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, located at 601 N. Ithan Avenue, Bryn Mawr,

   Montgomery County, Pennsylvania 19010.

10. At all times material, Defendant Beaumont employed more than fifteen employees.

11. At all times material hereto, Plaintiff Foster was employed by Defendant Beaumont

   as a Relief Cook Supervisor.

12. At all times material, Defendant Beaumont acted and/or failed to act by and through

   the conduct of its officers, managers, employees, and agents, all acting within the

   course and scope of their authority, and under the control of Defendant Beaumont.
  Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 4 of 18




13. At all times material, Defendant Beaumont has been a “person” and “employer” as

   defined by Title VII, 42 U.S.C. Section 181, and the PHRA. It is and has been

   subject to the provisions of each of these laws.

                                            FACTS

14. Plaintiff Foster began working for Defendant Beaumont in approximately 1988 as a

   Utility Service Dishwasher.

15. Over the course of his thirty plus years of employment with Defendant Beaumont,

   Plaintiff Foster also held the positions of Prep Cook, Cook, and Relief Cook

   Supervisor.

16. Plaintiff Foster held the position of Relief Cook Supervisor for the last ten years or so

   of his employment, until his unlawful termination on July 17, 2019.

17. Throughout the course of his three decades of employment with Defendant

   Beaumont, Plaintiff Foster received positive reviews, increases in wages, and

   promotions. He was meeting or exceeding the expectations of his employment.

18. During the course of his employment, Plaintiff Foster was one of the many African

   American workers employed by Defendant Beaumont in the dining department.

19. In early 2019, Defendant Beaumont hired a new Director of Food and Beverage

   Services, Zach Margolis, who is Caucasian.

20. Upon the hiring of Mr. Margolis, Plaintiff Foster’s direct supervisor, John Bauer,

   Executive Chef, who is also Caucasian, began reporting to Mr. Margolis.

21. Shortly after the hiring of Mr. Margolis, Defendant Beaumont, by and through its

   employees/agents, including Mr. Margolis, began subjecting Plaintiff Foster and

   others to racial discrimination.
Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 5 of 18




 22. Specifically, Mr. Margolis treated Plaintiff Foster in a hostile and condescending

    manner, micromanaging his work, and unjustifiably criticizing his performance in

    front of his colleagues. Similarly, situated employees who were Caucasian were

    not treated similarly.

 23. Mr. Margolis made unjustified complaints to Plaintiff Foster’s executive Chef,

    Mr. Bauer, regarding Plaintiff Foster’s performance in the manner in which he

    was cooking food, and the timeliness of the food orders being prepared by him.

 24. The aforementioned complaints by Mr. Margolis were untrue and were made

    solely based on Plaintiff Foster’s race and in furtherance of Mr. Margolis’ efforts

    to rid Defendant Beaumont of the African American dining employees.

 25. Plaintiff Foster reported this unequal treatment by Mr. Margolis to the Executive

    Chef, John Bauer.

 26. A meeting was held in response to Plaintiff Foster’s complaints with Mr. Bauer,

    Mr. Margolis, and Plaintiff Foster during which Mr. Margolis acknowledged that

    he was acting harshly but stated that he was hired to “cleanup” the dining

    department.

 27. Around the same time, in the Spring of 2019, a meeting was held with Mr.

    Margolis, Mr. Bauer, and others, wherein one of the residents of the community

    asked Defendant Beaumont to get rid of the blacks working at the facility because

    they felt they were living on a plantation.

 28. Following this meeting, Mr. Margolis told a resident that he was going to “change

    the face of the kitchen.”
  Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 6 of 18




29. Thereafter, Plaintiff Foster, and other minority workers, continued to be treated

   unfairly by Mr. Margolis based solely on their race and in furtherance of Mr.

   Margolis’ efforts to rid Defendant Beaumont of the African American dining

   employees.

30. For example, Mr. Margolis reduced or removed completely the break time for

   minority workers while allowing other non-minority employees up to an hour-long

   break.

31. Again, Plaintiff Foster reported this unequal treatment of Mr. Margolis to the

   Executive Chef, John Bauer.

32. In response, Mr. Bauer told Plaintiff Foster that he should stop “wearing his attitude

   on his shirt sleeve”, and ignored his concerns.

33. Shortly thereafter in approximately June of 2019, a telephone survey was conducted

   and Plaintiff Foster was asked whether he felt comfortable going to his supervisors if

   he had a concern, to which Plaintiff Foster responded no.

34. Less than an hour after this survey, which was supposed to be anonymous, Mr. Bauer

   confronted Plaintiff Foster and told him that the “higher up”, and specifically Mr.

   Margolis, did not like his answer.

35. Mr. Bauer instructed Plaintiff Foster to “just say nice things” in response to the

   survey questions, Plaintiff Foster refused to change his answer.

36. From that time forward, Plaintiff Foster continued to be harassed, criticized, and

   treated in a condescending manner by his supervisor, Mr. Margolis.

37. In the early Summer of 2019, Plaintiff Foster again reported his concerns over the

   disparate treatment he was receiving, this time to Human Resources directly.
  Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 7 of 18




38. The Director of Human Resources, Mary Wells, did nothing in response to Plaintiff

   Foster’s complaints, conducted no investigation into the complaints, and totally

   disregarded his report of racial discrimination and wrongdoing.

39. Despite the lack of response to his complaints, Plaintiff Foster continued to raise his

   concerns about this disparate treatment of workers during a supervisor meeting,

   insisting that everyone wanted to be treated equally.

40. Just days after vocalizing his belief that everyone should be treated equally, and after

   more than thirty years of service, Plaintiff Foster was terminated by the Defendant

   Beaumont.

41. Initially Defendant Beaumont stated that Plaintiff Foster was terminated because “his

   services were no longer needed”.

42. Later Defendant Beaumont took the position that Plaintiff Foster was terminated

   because he was acting in a threatening and disrespectful manner.

43. Neither of the offered justifications for Plaintiff Foster’s termination after thirty years

   were truthful.

44. Plaintiff Foster was terminated because he is African American and Defendant

   Beaumont made a purposeful decision to remove blacks from the dining department.

45. Plaintiff Foster was also terminated in retaliation for his opposition to unlawful racial

   discrimination in the workplace and because he refused to “just say nice things”.

46. The foregoing adverse employment action was taken against Plaintiff Foster because

   he is African American, and in retaliation for having vocalized his concerns about the

   disparate treatment of minority workers, including himself, at Defendant Beaumont,

   which were protected activities.
  Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 8 of 18




47. Plaintiff Foster was replaced by a Caucasian employee.

48. At or around the same time, at least two other African American employees were

   removed from the dining department, and were replaced with Caucasian workers.

49. At all times material hereto, Plaintiff was qualified and able to perform the essential

   functions of his position.

50. Plaintiff timely filed claims for discrimination and retaliation.

51. Plaintiff received his right to sue notice from the EEOC on August 21, 2020.

52. As a direct result of Defendant Beaumont’s discriminatory and retaliatory conduct,

   Plaintiff Foster has suffered and continues to suffer economic and non-economic

   damages, including emotional, psychological and physical damages.

53. As a result of Defendant Beaumont’s discriminatory and retaliatory conduct,

   Plaintiff’s professional job opportunities have been impaired and he has suffered a

   loss of earning capacity.

             COUNT I – DISCRIMINATION UNDER TITLE VII

54. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are incorporated as though fully

   set forth herein.

55. Defendant Beaumont, by and through its employees, agents, and servants,

   discriminated against Plaintiff Foster based on his race in violation of Title VII.

56. As a result of Defendant Beaumont’s racially discriminatory conduct, Plaintiff Foster

   suffered irreparable harm including a loss of earnings, loss of benefits, loss of future

   earning capacity, back pay, front pay, and interest.
         Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 9 of 18




       57. Plaintiff Foster was and continues to be damaged by Defendant Beaumont’s unlawful

          racial discrimination, including but not limited to suffering emotional distress,

          embarrassment, humiliation, and loss of self esteem.

       WHEREFORE, based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Foster demands judgment against

Defendant Beaumont for the following relief:

                     a.        punitive damages to which Plaintiff proves he is entitled;

                     b.        damages for past, present, and future pain and suffering, emotional

                               pain and suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and

                               any other compensatory damages, together with all costs of suit and

                               other remedies allowed by law;

                     c.        interest in the maximum amount allowed by law;

                     d.        attorney’s fees and costs in the maximum amount allowed by law;

                     e.        an injunction permanently and forever prohibiting and restraining

                               Defendant from any and all discrimination and retaliation; and

                     f.        such other and further relied as the Court deems just.

                              COUNT II – RETALIATION UNDER TITLE VII

       58. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are incorporated as though fully

          set forth herein.

       59. Defendant Beaumont, by and through its employees, agents, and servants, unlawfully

          retaliated against Plaintiff Foster for opposing unlawful racial discrimination in the

          workplace in violation of Title VII.

       60. As a result of Defendant Beaumont’s unlawful retaliatory conduct, Plaintiff Foster

          suffered irreparable harm including a loss of earnings, loss of benefits, loss of future
        Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 10 of 18




          earning capacity, back pay, front pay, and interest.

       61. Plaintiff Foster was and continues to be damaged by Defendant Beaumont’s unlawful

          retaliation, including but not limited to suffering emotional distress, embarrassment,

          humiliation, and loss of self-esteem.

       WHEREFORE, based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Foster demands judgment against

Defendant Beaumont for the following relief:

              a.      punitive damages to which Plaintiff proves he is entitled;

              b.      damages for past, present, and future pain and suffering, emotional pain

                      and suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and any other

                      compensatory damages, together with all costs of suit and other remedies

                      allowed by law;

              c.      interest in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              d.      attorney’s fees and costs in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              e.      an injunction permanently and forever prohibiting and restraining

                      Defendant from any and all discrimination and retaliation; and

              f.      such other and further relied as the Court deems just.

                     COUNT III – DISCRIMINATION UNDER PHRA

       62. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are incorporated as though fully

          set forth herein.

       63. Defendant Beaumont, by and through its employees, agents, and servants,

          discriminated against Plaintiff Foster based on his race in violation of the PHRA.

       64. As a result of Defendant Beaumont’s racially discriminatory conduct, Plaintiff Foster

          suffered irreparable harm including a loss of earnings, loss of benefits, loss of future

          earning capacity, back pay, front pay, and interest.
        Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 11 of 18




       65. Plaintiff Foster was and continues to be damaged by Defendant Beaumont’s unlawful

          racial discrimination, including but not limited to suffering emotional distress,

          embarrassment, humiliation, and loss of self esteem.

       WHEREFORE, based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Foster demands judgment against

Defendant Beaumont for the following relief:

              a.      punitive damages to which Plaintiff proves he is entitled;

              b.      damages for past, present, and future pain and suffering, emotional pain

                      and suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and any other

                      compensatory damages, together with all costs of suit and other remedies

                      allowed by law;

              c.      interest in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              d.      attorney’s fees and costs in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              e.      an injunction permanently and forever prohibiting and restraining

                      Defendant from any and all discrimination and retaliation; and

              f.      such other and further relied as the Court deems just.

                       COUNT IV – RETALIATION UNDER PHRA

       66. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are incorporated as though fully

          set forth herein.

       67. Defendant Beaumont, by and through its employees, agents, and servants, unlawfully

          retaliated against Plaintiff Foster for opposing unlawful racial discrimination in the

          workplace in violation of the PHRA.

       68. As a result of Defendant Beaumont’s unlawful retaliatory conduct, Plaintiff Foster

          suffered irreparable harm including a loss of earnings, loss of benefits, loss of future
        Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 12 of 18




          earning capacity, back pay, front pay, and interest.

          69. Plaintiff Foster was and continues to be damaged by Defendant Beaumont’s

              unlawful retaliation, including but not limited to suffering emotional distress,

              embarrassment, humiliation, and loss of self-esteem.

       WHEREFORE, based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Foster demands judgment against

Defendant Beaumont for the following relief:

              a.      punitive damages to which Plaintiff proves he is entitled;

              b.      damages for past, present, and future pain and suffering, emotional pain

                      and suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and any other

                      compensatory damages, together with all costs of suit and other remedies

                      allowed by law;

              c.      interest in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              d.      attorney’s fees and costs in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              e.      an injunction permanently and forever prohibiting and restraining

                      Defendant from any and all discrimination and retaliation; and

              f.      such other and further relied as the Court deems just.


                   COUNT V – DISCRIMINATION UNDER SECTION 1981

       64. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are incorporated as though fully

          set forth herein.

       65. Defendant Beaumont, by and through its employees, agents, and servants,

          discriminated against Plaintiff Foster based on his race in violation of Section 1981.

       66. As a result of Defendant Beaumont’s racially discriminatory conduct, Plaintiff Foster

          suffered irreparable harm including a loss of earnings, loss of benefits, loss of future
        Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 13 of 18




          earning capacity, back pay, front pay, and interest.

       67. Plaintiff Foster was and continues to be damaged by Defendant Beaumont’s unlawful

          racial discrimination, including but not limited to suffering emotional distress,

          embarrassment, humiliation, and loss of self esteem.

       WHEREFORE, based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Foster demands judgment against

Defendant Beaumont for the following relief:

              a.      punitive damages to which Plaintiff proves he is entitled;

              b.      damages for past, present, and future pain and suffering, emotional pain

                      and suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and any other

                      compensatory damages, together with all costs of suit and other remedies

                      allowed by law;

              c.      interest in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              d.      attorney’s fees and costs in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              e.      an injunction permanently and forever prohibiting and restraining

                      Defendant from any and all discrimination and retaliation; and

              f.      such other and further relied as the Court deems just.

                      COUNT VI – RETALIATION UNDER SECTION 1981

       68. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are incorporated as though fully

          set forth herein.

       69. Defendant Beaumont, by and through its employees, agents, and servants, unlawfully

          retaliated against Plaintiff Foster for opposing unlawful racial discrimination in the

          workplace in violation of Title VII.

       70. As a result of Defendant Beaumont’s unlawful retaliatory conduct, Plaintiff Foster
        Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 14 of 18




          suffered irreparable harm including a loss of earnings, loss of benefits, loss of future

          earning capacity, back pay, front pay, and interest.

       71. Plaintiff Foster was and continues to be damaged by Defendant Beaumont’s unlawful

          retaliation, including but not limited to suffering emotional distress, embarrassment,

          humiliation, and loss of self-esteem.

       WHEREFORE, based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Foster demands judgment against

Defendant Beaumont for the following relief:

              a.     punitive damages to which Plaintiff proves he is entitled;

              b.     damages for past, present, and future pain and suffering, emotional pain

                     and suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and any other

                     compensatory damages, together with all costs of suit and other remedies

                     allowed by law;

              c.     interest in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              d.     attorney’s fees and costs in the maximum amount allowed by law;

              e.     an injunction permanently and forever prohibiting and restraining

                     Defendant from any and all discrimination and retaliation; and

              f.     such other and further relied as the Court deems just.
        Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 15 of 18




                                           JURY DEMAND

          Plaintiff hereby demands a jury trial.

                                            HILL & ASSOCIATES, P.C.

                                            /s/ Susan B. Ayres
                                            ___________________________________
                                            Susan B. Ayres, Esquire
                                            Attorney for Plaintiff
                                            PA ID No 81849
                                            1700 Market Street, Ste. 3150
                                            Philadelphia, PA 19103
                                            215-567-7600 (phone); 215-525-4311 (f)
                                            Sue@Hilljustice.com

Date: 11/4/20
Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 16 of 18




  EXHIBIT A
                           Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 17 of 18
 EEOC Form 161-B (11/16)                  U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION

                                         NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUE (ISSUED ON REQUEST)
To:     Robert Foster                                                                 From:    Philadelphia District Office
        566 Larchhwood Avenue                                                                  801 Market Street
        Upper Darby, PA 19082                                                                  Suite 1000
                                                                                               Philadelphia, PA 19107




                  On behalf of person(s) aggrieved whose identity is
                  CONFIDENTIAL (29 CFR §1601.7(a))

 EEOC Charge No.                                         EEOC Representative                                           Telephone No.

                                                         Legal Unit,
 530-2020-01429                                          Legal Technician                                              (267) 589-9707
                                                                                   (See also the additional information enclosed with this form.)
NOTICE TO THE PERSON AGGRIEVED:
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), or the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination
Act (GINA): This is your Notice of Right to Sue, issued under Title VII, the ADA or GINA based on the above-numbered charge. It has
been issued at your request. Your lawsuit under Title VII, the ADA or GINA must be filed in a federal or state court WITHIN 90 DAYS
of your receipt of this notice; or your right to sue based on this charge will be lost. (The time limit for filing suit based on a claim under
state law may be different.)

        X         More than 180 days have passed since the filing of this charge.

                  Less than 180 days have passed since the filing of this charge, but I have determined that it is unlikely that the EEOC will
                  be able to complete its administrative processing within 180 days from the filing of this charge.
        X         The EEOC is terminating its processing of this charge.

                  The EEOC will continue to process this charge.

Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA): You may sue under the ADEA at any time from 60 days after the charge was filed until
90 days after you receive notice that we have completed action on the charge. In this regard, the paragraph marked below applies to
your case:
                  The EEOC is closing your case. Therefore, your lawsuit under the ADEA must be filed in federal or state court WITHIN
                  90 DAYS of your receipt of this Notice. Otherwise, your right to sue based on the above-numbered charge will be lost.

                  The EEOC is continuing its handling of your ADEA case. However, if 60 days have passed since the filing of the charge,
                  you may file suit in federal or state court under the ADEA at this time.

Equal Pay Act (EPA): You already have the right to sue under the EPA (filing an EEOC charge is not required.) EPA suits must be brought
in federal or state court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) of the alleged EPA underpayment. This means that backpay due for
any violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible.

If you file suit, based on this charge, please send a copy of your court complaint to this office.

                                                                          On behalf of the Commission


                                                                                                                     August 21, 2020
 Enclosures(s)                                                         Jamie R. Williamson,                                   (Date Mailed)
                                                                         District Director

 cc:           Andrew Dollman                                                         Susan Ayres
               Latsha, Davis, & Marshall                                              HILL & ASSOCIATES
               1700 Bent Creek Blvd. Ste 140                                          1700 Market St, Ste 3150
               Mechanicsburg, PA 17050                                                Philadelphia, PA 19103
                      Case 2:20-cv-05505-MAK Document 1 Filed 11/04/20 Page 18 of 18
Enclosure with EEOC
Form 161-B (11/16)
                                       INFORMATION RELATED TO FILING SUIT
                                     UNDER THE LAWS ENFORCED BY THE EEOC
                      (This information relates to filing suit in Federal or State court under Federal law.
             If you also plan to sue claiming violations of State law, please be aware that time limits and other
                    provisions of State law may be shorter or more limited than those described below.)

                                   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS           --
                                   the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), or the Age
                                   Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA):

In order to pursue this matter further, you must file a lawsuit against the respondent(s) named in the charge within
90 days of the date you receive this Notice. Therefore, you should keep a record of this date. Once this 90-
day period is over, your right to sue based on the charge referred to in this Notice will be lost. If you intend to
consult an attorney, you should do so promptly. Give your attorney a copy of thi s Notice, and its envelope, and tell
him or her the date you received it. Furthermore, in order to avoid any question that you did not act in a timely
manner, it is prudent that your suit be filed within 90 days of the date this Notice was mailed to you (as
indicated where the Notice is signed) or the date of the postmark, if later.
Your lawsuit may be filed in U.S. District Court or a State court of competent jurisdiction. (Usually, the appropriate
State court is the general civil trial court.) Whether you file in Federal or State court is a matter for you to decide
after talking to your attorney. Filing this Notice is not enough. You must file a "complaint" that contains a short
statement of the facts of your case which shows that you are entitled to relief. Courts often require that a copy of
your charge must be attached to the complaint you file in court. If so, you should remove your birth date from the
charge. Some courts will not accept your complaint where the charge includes a date of birth. Your suit may include
any matter alleged in the charge or, to the extent permitted by court decisions, matters like or related to the matters
alleged in the charge. Generally, suits are brought in the State where the alleged unlawful practice occurred, bu t in
some cases can be brought where relevant employment records are kept, where the employment would have
been, or where the respondent has its main office. If you have simple questions, you usually can get answers from
the office of the clerk of the court where you are bringing suit, but do not expect that office to write your complaint
or make legal strategy decisions for you.

PRIVATE SUIT RIGHTS           --   Equal Pay Act (EPA):

EPA suits must be filed in court within 2 years (3 years for willful violations) o f the alleged EPA underpayment: back
pay due for violations that occurred more than 2 years (3 years) before you file suit may not be collectible. For
example, if you were underpaid under the EPA for work performed from 7/1/08 to 12/1/08, you should file suit
before 7/1/10 – not 12/1/10 -- in order to recover unpaid wages due for July 2008. This time limit for filing an EPA
suit is separate from the 90-day filing period under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA referred to above.
Therefore, if you also plan to sue under Title VII, the ADA, GINA or the ADEA, in addition to suing on the EPA
claim, suit must be filed within 90 days of this Notice and within the 2- or 3-year EPA back pay recovery period.

ATTORNEY REPRESENTATION --               Title VII, the ADA or GINA:

If you cannot afford or have been unable to obtain a lawyer to represent you, the U.S. District Court having jurisdiction
in your case may, in limited circumstances, assist you in obtaining a lawyer. Requests for such assistance must be
made to the U.S. District Court in the form and manner it requires (you should be prepared to explain in detail your
efforts to retain an attorney). Requests should be made well before the end of the 90-day period mentioned above,
because such requests do not relieve you of the requirement to bring suit within 90 days.

ATTORNEY REFERRAL AND EEOC ASSISTANCE                    --   All Statutes:

You may contact the EEOC representative shown on your Notice if you need help in finding a lawyer or if you have any
questions about your legal rights, including advice on which U.S. District Court can hear your case. If you need to
inspect or obtain a copy of information in EEOC's file on the charge, please request it promptly in writing and provide
your charge number (as shown on your Notice). While EEOC destroys charge files after a certain time, all charge files
are kept for at least 6 months after our last action on the case. Therefore, if you file suit and want to review the charge
file, please make your review request within 6 months of this Notice. (Before filing suit, any request should be
made within the next 90 days.)

                  IF YOU FILE SUIT, PLEASE SEND A COPY OF YOUR COURT COMPLAINT TO THIS OFFICE.
