Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/18420439/1/veikos-v-trustees-of-the-university-of-pennsylvania/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in VEIKOS v. TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (E.D. Pa., 2:20-cv-04408) – CourtListener.com

           Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 1 of 65




9/9/2020
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 2 of 65
             Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 3 of 65
                        IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                     FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

                    CASE MANAGEMENT TRACK DESIGNATION FORM
     CATHRINE VEIKOS                              :                           CIVIL ACTION
                                                  :
                        v.                        :
     TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY                   :
                                                  :                          NO.
     OF PENNSYLVANIA
In accordance with the Civil Justice Expense and Delay Reduction Plan of this court, counsel for
plaintiff shall complete a Case Management Track Designation Form in all civil cases at the time of
filing the complaint and serve a copy on all defendants. (See § 1:03 of the plan set forth on the reverse
side of this form.) In the event that a defendant does not agree with the plaintiff regarding said
designation, that defendant shall, with its first appearance, submit to the clerk of court and serve on
the plaintiff and all other parties, a Case Management Track Designation Form specifying the track
to which that defendant believes the case should be assigned.

SELECT ONE OF THE FOLLOWING CASE MANAGEMENT TRACKS:
(a) Habeas Corpus – Cases brought under 28 U.S.C. § 2241 through § 2255.                             ( )

(b) Social Security – Cases requesting review of a decision of the Secretary of Health
    and Human Services denying plaintiff Social Security Benefits.                                   ( )

(c) Arbitration – Cases required to be designated for arbitration under Local Civil Rule 53.2.       ( )

(d) Asbestos – Cases involving claims for personal injury or property damage from
    exposure to asbestos.                                                                            ( )

(e) Special Management – Cases that do not fall into tracks (a) through (d) that are
    commonly referred to as complex and that need special or intense management by
    the court. (See reverse side of this form for a detailed explanation of special
    management cases.)                                                                               ( )

(f) Standard Management – Cases that do not fall into any one of the other tracks.                   ( X)


 9/9/2020                                                             Plaintiff
Date                               Attorney-at-law                       Attorney for
 (215) 545-7676
                                 (215) 501-5957                        uebler@consolelaw.com

Telephone                           FAX Number                           E-Mail Address


(Civ. 660) 10/02
          Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 4 of 65




                       IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                    FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

                                                :
 CATHRINE VEIKOS,                               :
                                                :
                                   Plaintiff,   :
                                                :
         v.                                     : CIVIL ACTION NO.
                                                :
                                                :
                                                :
 TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY                     :
 OF PENNSYLVANIA,                               : JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
                                                :
                                Defendant.      :
                                                :

                                           COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Cathrine Veikos (“Plaintiff”), by and through her counsel, files this Complaint

and asserts claims of discrimination based on gender and familial status and retaliation against

the Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania (“Defendant” or “Penn”).

                                         INTRODUCTION

       Penn, one of the country’s premier educational institutions with an annual budget of over

$11 billion, likes to pride itself on its diversity and efforts to support women faculty. Despite its

outward branding, Penn blatantly violated Cathrine Veikos’ civil rights by enabling a male

Department Chair to sabotage her academic career because he resented her for taking advantage

of a supposedly “family friendly” policy following the birth of her son.

       When Professor Veikos complained to her Dean and other members of the administration

about the Department Chair’s misconduct, Penn circled the wagons, tried to dissuade her from

enforcing her civil rights, and refused to investigate her allegations. When Professor Veikos

refused to be silenced in the face of the discriminatory and retaliatory denial of her tenure
             Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 5 of 65




application, Penn conducted a “re-evaluation” of her tenure case that was plagued by retaliatory

bias.

        At the same time Penn advertised its commitment to the diversity of the University’s

faculty by gender and its adoption of “family friendly” policies to retain faculty with caregiving

responsibilities, Penn deliberately engaged in discriminatory and retaliatory conduct that ruined

Professor Veikos’ career in academia. Professor Veikos brings this lawsuit to hold Penn

accountable for its intentional and willful discrimination against her because of her gender

(female) and familial status (mother), and for retaliating against her when she attempted to

protect her rights and salvage her career.

                                   JURISDICTION AND VENUE

        1.       This discrimination case is authorized and instituted pursuant to Title VII of the

Civil Rights Act of 1964 ("Title VII"), 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq., as amended.

        2.       This Court has original jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331.

        3.       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1367, this Court has supplemental jurisdiction with

respect to Plaintiff’s claims for gender discrimination and retaliation under the Pennsylvania

Human Relations Act (“PHRA”), as amended, 43 P.S. § 951, et seq., and for gender and familial

status discrimination and retaliation under the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance (“PFPO”),

Phila. Code § 9-1101, et seq.

        4.       This case is not subject to compulsory arbitration because Plaintiff seeks

injunctive relief and the amount in controversy exceeds the jurisdictional amount for arbitration

of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000), exclusive of interest and costs.

        5.       Plaintiff has exhausted her administrative remedies, having timely filed

complaints of gender discrimination and retaliation with the Equal Employment Opportunity



                                                   2
            Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 6 of 65




Commission (“EEOC”), and complaints of gender and familial status discrimination and

retaliation with the Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations (“PCHR”).

       6.       The first administrative filings alleging gender and familial status discrimination

and retaliation were filed in October 2011 (EEOC No. 17-G-2012-0083C; PCHR No.

E12026008). The second administrative filings alleging gender and familial status discrimination

and retaliation were filed in October 2012 (EEOC No. 17-G-2013-0035C; PCHR No.

E12116127).

       7.       Plaintiff also notified the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”)

of the administrative filings at the EEOC and PCHR in order to exhaust her administrative

remedies under the PHRA.

       8.       The PCHR issued its Dismissal and Notice of Rights on June 26, 2020.

       9.       Venue is properly invoked pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 1391(b) because the actions

complained of herein occurred within the jurisdictional limit of this Court.

                                             PARTIES

       10.      Cathrine Veikos is a female citizen of the United States who currently resides in

Oakland, California.

       11.      The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania, operating as the University of

Pennsylvania, is a private educational institution comprised of twelve (12) schools, including

Design, Communications, Arts & Sciences, among others.

       12.      Penn is located in Philadelphia, PA 19106.

       13.      At all times relevant to this Complaint, Penn was an employer within the meaning

of Title VII, the PHRA, and the PFPO.




                                                  3
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 7 of 65




       14.     At all times relevant to this Complaint, Professor Veikos was an employee of

Penn within the meaning of Title VII, the PHRA, and the PFPO.

                                  FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

Professor Veikos’ Distinguished Career Prior to Joining the Penn Faculty

       15.     Professor Veikos received her Bachelor’s degree in Architecture from Barnard

College in 1985.

       16.     Professor Veikos received her Master of Architecture degree from the Harvard

University Graduate School of Design in 1989.

       17.     Following her graduation, Professor Veikos had a successful professional design

practice, which received positive recognition in both publications and exhibitions.

       18.     Prior to joining the faculty at Penn, Professor Veikos taught at Harvard

University in Boston, the Parsons School of Design in Paris, Tulane University in New Orleans,

and the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago. She was also a Cass Gilbert Visiting

Professor at the University of Minnesota’s College of Architecture and Landscape Architecture.

       19.     Professor Veikos’ area of expertise is in Visual Studies in Architecture, which

considers architecture and design work in the cultural context of art and emerging technologies.

       20.     Professor Veikos joined Penn’s Faculty in the Department of Architecture within

the School of Design in 1999.

School of Design’s Tenure Procedures and Related Policies

       21.     The various schools at Penn each have their own set of policies and procedures

relating to the tenure and promotion process.

       22.     The School of Design’s process for tenure includes a review by the candidate’s

Department as well as a school-specific Personnel Committee.



                                                4
           Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 8 of 65




          23.   By policy, the School of Design expects its tenured faculty to be thought leaders

in their fields, to have an identifiable area of work in which they are creating new knowledge and

visions, and to be working in fields that their department and school consider important for the

future.

          24.   Tenure-track Assistant Professors are in a “probationary” period for seven (7)

years, and the tenure review often takes place during the sixth year of the probationary period.

This allows for a “terminal year” on faculty in the event the candidate is not granted tenure.

          25.   The tenure review process includes a process by which the Department solicits

recommendations from external “consultants” or “reviewers,” who are generally faculty

members at other institutions in the same field as the candidate.

          26.   Penn’s Guidelines for Selection of External Consultants during the tenure

promotion process identify the purpose of the consultants. According to the Guidelines, external

consultants are expected to provide an unbiased and impartial assessment of a candidate’s

scholarship, reputation and standing in a specific field.

          27.   In evaluating a case for tenure, the standing faculty of the Department considers

the candidate’s dossier and the external review letters, and then meets to discuss and vote on the

case. The Chair of the Department is responsible to oversee the entire tenure process, and then

communicate the Department vote to the Personnel Committee.

          28.   The Personnel Committee, which consists of five (5) members of the various

Departments within a particular School, reviews the candidate’s full dossier with input from the

Department Chair. The Personnel Committee then votes on the case and communicates its

decision to the Dean.




                                                  5
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 9 of 65




       29.     The Dean then reviews the case and decides whether to seek approval for the

promotion from the Provost’s office. The School of Design’s policies expressly grant discretion

to the Dean to forward recommendations for tenure to the Provost that did not receive a positive

endorsement of the Personnel Committee.

Penn’s Adoption of Career-Family Balance Initiatives

       30.     In the mid-1990s, Penn considered and approved various family-related policies,

including a policy to allow the extension of the tenure probationary period for junior faculty who

give birth. Over the years, Penn reviewed and updated the policy.

       31.     Penn adopted the policy to make it clear that the tenure clock “stopped,” and

academic production was not expected during that year.

       32.     As of February 2006, Penn approved a revised Policy on Extension of the

Probationary Periods that Apply to Granting of Tenure or Promotion to Associate Professor,

which allowed male and female tenure track professors to seek a one-year extension of the

probationary period following the birth of a child into the faculty member’s household if the

faculty member is the primary or co-equal parental caregiver.

       33.     As part of that policy, the letters soliciting evaluations from external reviewers are

to explicitly state that the candidate has taken an extension pursuant to the policy, and that Penn

would evaluate the productivity of each candidate who has been granted an extension as if he or

she had been in probationary status for the normal duration, so that the candidate is not penalized

for having received the extension.

Penn’s Recognition of the Gender Imbalance in Faculty and its Purported Investment Improving
The Presence and Experiences of Women Faculty

       34.     As reflected in its various Progress Reports on Gender Equity, Penn purports to be

committed to increasing the presence and improving the experience of women faculty.

                                                 6
           Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 10 of 65




          35.   With respect to women faculty in 2011, the year in which Professor Veikos was

considered for tenure, Penn reported that the proportion of women faculty at Penn was 30.7%.

As reported by Penn, within the School of Design, 57% of Assistant Professors (non-tenured)

were women, but only 15.4% of Full Professors were women. In the same year, Penn reported

that 50% of Assistant Professors (non-tenured) in the Department of Architecture were women,

but only 20% of Full Professors (1 out of 5) were women. These statistics clearly demonstrate

that the low percentage of tenured faculty was not a “pipeline” problem.

          36.   At the time it evaluated Professor Veikos’ tenure case, Penn’s President, Provost,

and the rest of the University’s Administrators were fully aware of the gender imbalance in the

tenured faculty, as well as the federal, state, and local laws prohibiting discrimination on the

basis of gender and/or family status in evaluating tenure.

Department of Architecture’s Preferential Treatment of Male Professors Prior to Professor
Veikos’ Consideration for Tenure

          37.   In 1999, Penn’s Department of Architecture had one open tenure track position,

for which Professor Veikos applied and interviewed.

          38.   At that time, Gary Hack (male) served as Dean for the School of Design, Richard

Wesley (male) was Chair of the Department, and William Braham (male) was Chair of the

Selection Committee.

          39.   The Department of Architecture Faculty narrowed its search for the open tenure

track position to three candidates: Cathrine Veikos; Ali Rahim (male); and Branko Kolarevic

(male).

          40.   Despite the Faculty’s preference to hire Professor Veikos into the tenure track

position, Dean Hack and his male colleagues extended tenure track offers to both of the male

candidates (Ali Rahim and Branko Kolarevic), but not to Professor Veikos. Penn made two

                                                  7
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 11 of 65




offers for tenure track positions to the two male candidates, even though there had been only one

position posted.

       41.     Instead, Professor Wesley, as Department Chair, offered Professor Veikos an

appointment as a Full-Time Lecturer, which she accepted.

       42.     At the time David Leatherbarrow (male) applied for tenure in the Department of

Architecture, his tenure dossier included a number of published articles and two books that were

under contract, but as yet unpublished. Penn approved Professor Leatherbarrow’s tenure

application.

       43.     Penn recruited Detlef Mertins (male) from another institution to serve as Chair of

the Architecture Department. Penn reviewed his tenure application the same year he joined the

Faculty. At the time, Professor Mertins’ only sole-authored published book was an introduction

to a translated work. Penn approved Professor Mertins’ tenure application.

       44.     At the time Annette Fierro (female) submitted her tenure application, her tenure

dossier included one published book. Penn approved Professor Fierro’s tenure application.

       45.     At the time William Braham (male) submitted his tenure application, his tenure

dossier included only his Ph.D. thesis, which was an introduction to a translated work. Penn

approved Professor Braham’s tenure application.

       46.     The Department of Architecture first considered Ali Rahim (male) for tenure in

the sixth year of his probationary period. Upon information and belief, the Faculty did not

support Professor Rahim for tenure, but the Dean, Gary Hack, and former Chair, Richard

Wesley, and the Chair, Detlef Mertins all strongly supported his candidacy.




                                                8
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 12 of 65




       47.     Upon information and belief, with the support of his male mentors within the

Department and University administration, Professor Rahim withdrew his tenure application

rather than risk a denial of his tenure application.

       48.     Upon information and belief, Richard Wesley characterized the situation with

Professor Rahim as follows: We are not going to ruin a young man’s career over this.

       49.     Thereafter, Penn allowed Professor Rahim to leave the University for a year

during which he taught as a Visiting Professor at another institution.

       50.     During the year Professor Rahim taught away from Penn, the Department

considered his tenure application and the Faculty vote was split. Nevertheless, the Chair of the

Department, Professor Mertins (male), strongly advocated for Professor Rahim to the Personnel

Committee, where again the vote was split.

       51.     Despite a split vote for Professor Rahim’s tenure case at the Personnel

Committee, Dean Hack enthusiastically supported Professor Rahim to the Provost.

       52.     Penn approved Professor Rahim’s tenure application.

       53.     A female student in Professor Rahim’s studio experienced sexual harassment

from other students in the class. Later, Professor Wesley hired her to teach in the undergraduate

program. When her undergraduate students were told that the only reason she was hired to teach

was because she had an affair with Professor Wesley, the female lecturer requested a meeting

with Professor Wesley and Professor Mertins.

       54.     In that meeting with the male professors, the female lecturer requested that they

ask the student who defamed her to publicly apologize and that Professor Wesley take steps to

put an end to the false rumor. Instead, the male professors told the female lecturer that she should




                                                  9
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 13 of 65




be “flattered,” that these types of rumors were “common” and “inconsequential,” and that she

should not take the issue further or it would “ruin” her career.

       55.     The actions of Professor Braham, who became Interim Chair of the Department

when Professor Mertins went on medical leave, were also motivated by gender bias. For

example, Professor Braham assigned more significant administrative duties to female faculty

members, including Professor Veikos as set forth herein, but not the men.

       56.     In addition, when Professor Veikos became aware that a male faculty member had

copied a syllabus from one of her courses, Professor Braham dismissed her concerns and made

little effort to address the male faculty member’s inappropriate conduct.

       57.     Another time, a female student approached Professor Veikos about concerns

about working with a male partner with whom she had been assigned to work in one of her

studios. The student had already spoken to Professor Braham, but he had not taken any steps to

address the female student’s concerns. When Professor Veikos asked Professor Braham about

the situation, Professor Braham claimed that he had the situation in hand and that the student

who complained was being “hysterical.”

       58.     In 2009, Penn offered workshops on the subject of unconscious bias in selection

decisions to its various schools, including the School of Design.

       59.     In 2010, Vice Provost for Faculty, Lynn Hollen Lees, conducted training sessions

on how to conduct effective faculty searches for the members of search committees. In one such

training session, Vice Provost Lees confirmed that unconscious bias adversely affected the

consideration of female candidates, and she recommended that decision makers become familiar

with research on bias and take steps to conduct structured, evidence-based reviews of candidates.




                                                 10
        Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 14 of 65




       60.     At a Department of Architecture Faculty meeting on December 1, 2010, Professor

Ali Malkawi (male) presented on the status of a search for a new Assistant Professor in

Environmental Building Design. In that context, Professor Fierro raised the issue of unconscious

bias in hiring, and referenced the University’s communications on the subject.

       61.     In response, several male Professors in the Department became very defensive,

indicating that there was no way they could be biased based on gender because there was

(supposedly) no way to tell the gender of the candidates from the search materials. Professor

Witold Rybczynski (male) said the concept of unconscious bias was “bullshit.”

       62.     The Minutes of the Department meeting, distributed by Professor Braham, include

the following summary of the discussion: “The concept of Objective Bias [sic] was raised but

discounted by the committee, especially in terms of gender, because [we] did not have this

information to be biased by.”

Professor Veikos’ Tenure Probationary Period and Qualifications for Tenure

       63.     Penn appointed Professor Veikos as an Assistant Professor on a tenure track on

July 1, 2003 for a four (4) year term. In accordance with Penn’s policies, Professor Veikos

anticipated her application for tenure would be reviewed during the 2008/2009 academic year.

       64.     Professor Veikos sought approval to travel with students to Brazil during the

2004/2005 academic year in order further her research in support of the publications that would

be required for tenure. At the time, Professor Veikos had been awarded a Rotch Traveling Studio

Scholarship to support field research in Brazil during the 2004/2005 academic year.

       65.     Professor Mertins (male), as Chair of the Department, denied her request. Instead,

Professor Veikos was forced to delay her trip to Brazil to the following year.




                                               11
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 15 of 65




        66.    In May 2006, Penn confirmed Professor Veikos’ reappointment as Assistant

Professor for three (3) years, effective July 1, 2007.

        67.    In anticipation of the birth of her son, Professor Veikos sought and received a

50% reduction in her teaching obligations for the 2006/2007 academic year, which meant that

she would continue her duties throughout the year, except that she would not be required to teach

during the Fall Semester 2006.

        68.    Without Professor Veikos’ consent, Professor Braham and Dean Hack nominated

her to partner with Drexel University in its bid to host the Annual Meeting of the Association of

Collegiate Schools of Architecture (ACSA) to be held in March 2007. Dean Hack did not inform

Professor Veikos of the situation until the bid was accepted. Although he gave Professor Veikos

the opportunity to refuse this academic service duty, which required significant time and effort,

he framed the situation as a reasonable substitute for her reduced teaching obligations. Professor

Veikos agreed to complete the additional work.

        69.    Professor Veikos gave birth to her son, Alexander, on September 28, 2006. She

resumed her full duties, including a full teaching schedule, for the Spring semester.

        70.    In Spring 2007, Professor Veikos applied for and received a one-year extension of

her tenure probationary period pursuant to Penn’s “family-friendly” policies.

        71.    At that time, Professor Veikos was working on a book project that included an

extensive Appendix in which she was translating a prior work by Lina Bo Bardi, a female

Brazilian architect. Given the timing of the birth of her son, the scope of the project, and her goal

to have at least one book published prior to the end of her probationary period, Professor Veikos

decided to shift her focus to publishing an introductory essay to the translated work as a separate

book.



                                                 12
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 16 of 65




        72.    Professor Veikos made her decision in consultation with Faculty mentors,

including David Leatherbarrow, who expressly supported her decision to focus on publishing the

introductory essay and translation first as a separate book, rather than an appendix to her other

book.

        73.    Professor Leatherbarrow also confirmed at the time that publication of the

translation with an introductory essay, rather than an original work, would not negatively impact

Professor Veikos’ tenure review, since Penn granted tenure to Professor Mertins (male) on one

published translation as well.

        74.    In Fall 2007, Professor Braham scheduled Professor Veikos’ “junior research

leave,” which was a leave from teaching to conduct research required for her tenure publications.

In light of Professor Veikos’ extension of her probationary period, this leave should have been

delayed by one year. However, Professor Braham never consulted with Professor Veikos about

the timing of the research leave; he just went ahead and did not schedule her to teach that

semester.

        75.    On October 1, 2008, Marilyn Jordan Taylor (female), an urban design practitioner

with no academic experience, was appointed Dean of the School of Design, replacing Gary

Hack.

        76.    In the 2009/2010 academic year, Professor Veikos had the opportunity to apply

for tenure even though she had one year left in her probationary period. At that time, in

consultation with both Department Faculty and the Dean, Professor Veikos decided that she

would postpone her tenure application to the following academic year to ensure that she would

be able to include a publishing contract for her first book, Lina Bo Bardi: The Theory of

Architectural Practice, in her tenure dossier.



                                                 13
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 17 of 65




       77.     Professor Veikos and her Faculty mentors also discussed a preference to postpone

the tenure review to the next year in order to allow the newly appointed Dean to become familiar

with her responsibilities and role in connection with tenure cases.

       78.     At around the same time, Dean Taylor appointed Professor Veikos to the Search

Committee for a new Chair of the Department, corroborating the Dean’s perception that

Professor Veikos had a role in determining the direction of the Department moving forward. In

that conversation, Dean Taylor advised Professor Veikos that she had “nothing to worry about”

with respect to her case for tenure.

       79.     At the time of her review, Professor Veikos clearly met the criteria for tenure at

Penn. By then, Professor Veikos had published numerous peer-reviewed articles and papers in

the field of Visual Studies. Professor Veikos was also widely recognized in academia across the

country as a result of her publications and presentations, her Rotch Traveling Scholarship

Award, Cass Gilbert Fellowships, Graham Foundation for the Advancement of the Arts Award,

Alice Paul Research Fellowship, and other prestigious research grants and awards.

       80.     Professor Veikos’ status as a thought leader in the field of Visual Studies was

clearly demonstrated through all of her writing, her invited workshops and lectures, and through

her numerous former students and mentees who were actively teaching her ideas at universities

around the world.

       81.     With regard to Professor Veikos’ forthcoming Bo Bardi book, Professor

Leatherbarrow opined that it would be an “important book for some time in the future” and be

“followed by others of similar significance.” As to Professor Veikos’ scholarship, Professor

Leatherbarrow characterized it as “original and significant.”




                                                14
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 18 of 65




       82.     Similarly, Kenneth Frampton, Ware Professor of Architecture at Columbia

University, who also recommended Professor Veikos’ book for publication, praised the range

and subject matter of her writing.

Braham’s Discriminatory Handling of Professor Veikos’ Tenure Application

       Braham’s Intentional Sabotage of the External Review Process

       83.     As interim Chair of the Department of Architecture, Professor Braham had the

authority and responsibility to oversee Professor Veikos’ tenure application process, lead the

faculty discussion, record the Department vote, and make the case before the Personnel

Committee.

       84.     Professor Braham’s responsibilities also included submitting the dossier on the

candidate in accordance with University and School of Design procedures and ensuring the

appropriateness of external reviewers and the quality of the reviews conducted by the faculty and

any ad hoc committees.

       85.     Throughout the process, Professor Braham led Professor Veikos to believe that he

supported her candidacy for tenure, and was committed to managing the process effectively.

       86.     However, rather than facilitating Professor Veikos’ tenure review in a

professional and objective manner, Professor Braham purposely sabotaged her application

because of her gender and her familial status, particularly the fact that she had taken advantage

of Penn’s policy to extend her tenure probationary period following the birth of her son.

       87.     Professor Braham initiated his facilitation of Professor Veikos’ tenure review in

December 2010, by sending her a draft letter to be sent to external reviewers that referred to her

with male pronouns.




                                                15
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 19 of 65




        88.     This was the same month that the men in the Department of Architecture declared

the topic of unconscious gender bias to be “bullshit.”

        89.     Professor Braham had an affirmative obligation to frame Professor Veikos’ area

of expertise as Visual Studies, and to select external reviewers who were well positioned to opine

on her candidacy in that area. Instead, Professor Braham’s communications about the scope of

Professor Veikos’ expertise were limited to the work of Bo Bardi, and he did not fulfill his

obligations with respect to his selection of external reviewers.

        90.     Aside from his own inappropriate selection of reviewers, Professor Braham

violated Penn’s policy relating to Professor Veikos’ ability to select reviewers.

        91.     The School of Design’s rules permit the tenure candidate to select up to three of

the external reviewers. In Professor Veikos’ case, however, Professor Braham only allowed her

to choose two names.

        92.     Rather than allow Professor Veikos to make a third selection, Professor Braham

actually required her to select a reviewer whose work was ideologically opposed to her own. The

selection of such a reviewer was inappropriate regardless of whether it was on the University’s

list or Professor Veikos’ list.

        93.     In the letters soliciting the opinions of the external reviewers, Professor Braham

also violated Penn policy by not including the required language about Professor Veikos’

extension of her probationary period.

        94.     By doing so, Professor Braham invited a biased assessment from reviewers who

would inaccurately assume Professor Veikos had an extra year in which to produce material for

her tenure dossier, an outcome Penn’s policy was expressly designed to avoid.




                                                 16
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 20 of 65




       95.     Professor Braham also rushed the external review process so that the external

reviewers were not even aware that Professor Veikos’ book had been accepted for publication by

Routledge, Taylor & Francis Group, a well-regarded scholarly press.

       96.     Specifically, Professor Braham knew that Professor Veikos was expecting

confirmation of a publication contract for her book in early 2011, which was ultimately received

on March 24, 2011.

       97.     However, Professor Braham set the deadline for the responses from the external

reviewers in early March 2011, without notice or confirmation that the publishing contract for

Professor Veikos’ book was expected to and/or had been secured.

       98.     Presumably to hide his misconduct, Professor Braham repeatedly told Professor

Veikos that he would communicate the status of her book to the reviewers, even though he did

not.

       99.     Not surprisingly, Professor Braham’s discriminatory efforts to present Professor

Veikos in a negative light by making ill-advised reviewer selection decisions, leaving out the fact

that her probationary period was extended by one year, and hiding the fact that her book had

been accepted for publication, among others, were successful.

       100.    Although many letters from external reviewers were extremely positive, several

of the letters contained negative opinions about Professor Veikos’ tenure candidacy that were

clearly and improperly based on incorrect information about Professor Veikos’ status and the

contents of her dossier.

       101.    As Professor Veikos had feared, the external reviewer that Professor Braham

forced Professor Veikos to include in her list wrote a very negative letter questioning her

scholarship.



                                                17
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 21 of 65




       Braham’s Intentional Sabotage of the Faculty Voting Process

       102.    Prior to the Faculty vote on Professor Veikos’ tenure case, Professor Braham

solicited letters from the Faculty.

       103.    Professors Leatherbarrow and Fierro both submitted letters strongly supporting

Professor Veikos’ tenure case.

       104.    The School of Design’s procedure for utilizing an Ad Hoc Committee for tenure

reviews expressly contemplates that a senior faculty member who is knowledgeable about the

candidate’s field will conduct a careful reading of the dossier and offer a written appreciation of

it for the benefit of the various groups of internal reviewers (faculty, personnel committee, dean,

and university committees).

       105.    In violation of this procedure, Professor Braham selected Professor Rahim and

Professor Weiss for the Ad Hoc Committee. Neither Professor Rahim nor Professor Weiss had a

sufficient understanding of Visual Studies to serve on the Ad Hoc Committee.

       106.    Moreover, both Professors Rahim and Weiss had been tenured on their design

work, rather than their scholarship, and their letter about Professor Veikos’ candidacy improperly

assessed her design work, rather than her scholarship in Visual Studies.

       107.    Upon information and belief, Professor Braham selected Professor Rahim to serve

on the Ad Hoc Committee with knowledge that he opposed Professor Veikos’ candidacy.

       108.    In addition to being improperly focused on Professor Veikos’ design work as

opposed to her scholarly achievements in Visual Studies, Professors Rahim and Weiss were

improperly evaluating her candidacy based on the “quantity” of her work (which they described

as “limited”), rather than its quality, which was the purpose of the Ad Hoc Committee.




                                                18
           Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 22 of 65




       109.    This improper focus was exacerbated by the fact that Professors Rahim and Weiss

inaccurately identified the start of Professor Veikos’ probationary period to be 2002, instead of

2003, which suggests they were evaluating her work as if she had an additional year for

production.

       110.    On April 6, 2011, six (6) of the eight (8) members of the tenured Faculty in the

Department of Architecture met to discuss and cast their votes for Professor Veikos’ tenure

application. Present in the room were: William Braham; Annette Fierro; David Leatherbarrow;

Frank Matero; Ali Rahim; and Witold Rybczynski. Ali Malkawi and Marion Weiss were not

present.

       111.    As interim Chair, Professor Braham collected the paper ballots and announced the

vote as five (5) in favor and one (1) against. The tally at the meeting included a vote in favor

from Professor Braham.

       Braham’s Intentional Sabotage of the Personnel Committee Process

       112.    Despite the overwhelmingly positive support Professor Veikos received from the

tenured Faculty, Professor Braham intentionally sought to defeat her tenure candidacy in his

presentation of her case to the Personnel Committee.

       113.    In violation of past procedures in the Department of Architecture, Professor

Braham did not circulate a draft of his letter to the Personnel Committee about Professor Veikos’

candidacy prior to submitting it.

       114.    In that letter, forwarded to the Personnel Committee on April 6, 2011, Professor

Braham represented that the Department vote was four (4) in favor and two (2) against, with his

vote changed from how it was communicated in the Faculty meeting.




                                                19
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 23 of 65




        115.   In the same letter to the Personnel Committee, Professor Braham also explicitly

advocated against Professor Veikos’ tenure promotion, supposedly because he could not

“dismiss” the negative feedback from the external reviewers relating to the quantity of her

scholarly production, a false perception that he had purposely created.

        116.   Specifically, Professor Braham highlighted excerpts from the external consultants,

who “lauded the scholarship, but questioned whether there was a sufficient quantity of work,”

and who “found the total body of work less substantial than expected.”

        117.   Knowing that the opinions of the external reviewers were based on an inaccurate

perception of Professor Veikos’ publication record, which he caused, Professor Braham

encouraged the Personnel Committee to accept the assessments of those external reviewers over

the overwhelmingly positive support from the Faculty vote.

        118.   In addition, in violation of the intent of Penn’s policy relating to the extension of

the tenure probationary period for birth of a child, Professor Braham wrote: Professor Veikos

was “reappointed in 2006, and then the following year was granted an additional year in her

tenure-probation period because of the birth of her son” (emphasis added).

        119.   Throughout his advocacy against Professor Veikos to the Personnel Committee,

Professor Braham focused on the purported inadequacy of the volume of her published work, but

never questioned the quality of her scholarship.

        120.   The School of Design Personnel Committee met on April 8, 2011 to consider

Professor Veikos’ tenure application. At the meeting, Professor Braham actively advocated

against tenure. The Personnel Committee voted against tenure by a vote of zero (0) for and four

(4) against.




                                                   20
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 24 of 65




       121.    In subsequent discussions with Professor Veikos about the Personnel

Committee’s consideration of her tenure case, Professor Braham told her that the external

reviewers had questioned her decision to focus on publishing the Bo Bardi translation as her first

book separate from her broader project.

       122.    In that context, Professor Veikos reminded Professor Braham that she made that

decision in consultation with Faculty mentors, with the expectation that publishing the first book

would be sufficient for tenure, and he had done the same thing. In response, Professor Braham

claimed the shift was because she was “having trouble with the first book” after her son was

born, and told her: “Look, you can’t argue it both ways. Either you finished what you expected to

finish or you have an excuse for not finishing.”

       123.    Professor Braham’s conduct and statements evidence his resentment and

animosity against Professor Veikos because of her efforts to combine her caregiving

responsibilities as a parent with her efforts to achieve tenure at Penn.

       124.    In an effort to hide his biases, Professor Braham told Professor Veikos that there

was a “split vote” on her case within the Faculty, and never acknowledged that he had advocated

against her candidacy to the Personnel Committee.

Penn’s Willful Abdication Of Its Responsibility To Address Braham’s Discriminatory Actions
Resulted In The Discriminatory Denial Of Professor Veikos’ Tenure Application

       The Perfunctory Reconsideration By The Personnel Committee

       125.     On April 18, 2011, Dean Taylor and Professor Leatherbarrow met with Professor

Veikos to advise her that the Personnel Committee had voted against her promotion to Associate

Professor with tenure.




                                                   21
        Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 25 of 65




       126.    Dean Taylor was clearly surprised at the outcome, and agreed to give Professor

Veikos an opportunity to bring additional information to the attention of the Personnel

Committee for reconsideration.

       127.    At that time, Professor Veikos was unaware of the many ways in which Professor

Braham had intentionally sabotaged her tenure case.

       128.    Despite the unexpected outcome of the initial Personnel Committee vote, Dean

Taylor took no steps to review Professor Braham’s conduct with respect to Professor Veikos’

tenure case for evidence of mishandling or bias.

       129.    In addition, Dean Taylor took no steps to ensure that the reconsideration of

Professor Veikos’ tenure case at the Personnel Committee was anything more than perfunctory.

       130.    On Thursday, April 21, 2011, Professor Braham asked Professor Veikos to submit

any additional materials for consideration by the Personnel Committee no later than the next day,

April 22, 2011 (Good Friday), with the expectation that another vote would be taken at the

Personnel Committee’s next scheduled meeting on Monday, April 25, 2011, the day after Easter.

       131.    The next day, April 22, 2011, Professor Veikos was advised that the Department’s

offices were closing at 1:30 pm, and all new materials had to be submitted by that time.

       132.    Despite the short deadline, Professor Veikos submitted a letter to the Personnel

Committee in which she highlighted her concern that the external reviewers may not have been

aware that her manuscript for Lina Bo Bardi: The Theory of Architectural Practice had been

accepted for publication. Among other accomplishments, Professor Veikos also confirmed that

the proposal for her second book, The Sense of Surface: Lina Bo Bardi’s Drawings and

Buildings, was favorably evaluated by Ashgate Publishing Company’s Commissioning Editor,

Visual Studies, and was being circulated to reviewers for publication.



                                               22
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 26 of 65




       133.    In the meantime, Professor Fierro became aware that Professor Braham had

changed how his vote at the Faculty meeting was reflected in his initial letter to the Personnel

Committee. At Professor Fierro’s insistence, Professor Braham revised his April 6, 2011 letter to

show the Faculty vote as five (5) in favor and one (1) against.

       134.    When the Personnel Committee met again on April 25, 2011, Professor Braham

again attended the meeting and again advocated against the promotion, even though he told

Professor Veikos that he would have no role in the reconsideration process.

       135.    In refusing to approve Professor Veikos’ application for tenure with a vote of two

(2) for and three (3) against, the Personnel Committee again referenced the “concerns” of the

external reviewers about the quantity of her published work.

       136.    Despite their focus on quantity of production, the Personnel Committee took no

steps to investigate Professor Veikos’ concerns that the external reviewers were not aware of the

publication contract for her book.

       Penn Administration’s Failure to Investigate And Rectify Braham’s Discriminatory Bias

       137.    Soon after the Personnel Committee’s second vote against her tenure case,

Professor Veikos began to question Professor Braham’s handling of the process. For example,

Professor Veikos asked Dean Taylor whether it was possible that the external reviewers had not

been informed of the publication contract for her first book. Dean Taylor did not have a

response.

       138.    On May 4, 2011, Professor Veikos met with Dean Taylor to appeal to her to bring

her tenure application to the Provost with a positive recommendation in light of the strength of

her qualifications, and the mishandling of the process.




                                                23
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 27 of 65




       139.    A few days later, Professor Veikos confirmed her request in writing, and

referenced the section of the School of Design policies that expressly permits the Dean to

forward recommendations for tenure to the Provost that did not receive a positive endorsement of

the personnel committee.

       140.    Professor Veikos also met with Penn’s Ombudsman, Joan Goodman (female), to

seek assistance to review the tenure process. At the suggestion of Professor Goodman, Professor

Veikos requested to see a copy of Professor Braham’s letter to the external reviewers and

learned for the first time that it violated Penn’s policy by excluding the required language about

the extension of her probationary period.

       141.    Unbeknownst to Professor Veikos, Penn sent e-mails to each of the nine external

reviewers who opined on Professor Veikos’ tenure case in early May 2011 to advise them that

information about the Policy on the Extension of the Probationary Periods had been mistakenly

excluded from her dossier.

       142.    Penn asked that each of the external reviewers reply within less than a week to

confirm whether the Policy’s application to Professor Veikos’ tenure case changed their opinions

about her candidacy.

       143.    The process of asking the external reviewers to confirm whether this new

information impacted their opinions within less than one week, at the busiest time of the

academic year, was completely inadequate to remedy the significant policy violation.

       144.    By the required deadline, one external reviewer confirmed that the new

information improved her impression of Professor Veikos’ productivity. .

       145.    By that point, Professor Goodman had suggested that Professor Veikos consult

with Bethany Wiggin, a candidate for tenure in the School of Arts & Sciences, Department of



                                                24
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 28 of 65




Germanic Languages and Literatures. As with Professor Veikos, Penn had also violated the

Policy on the Extension of the Probationary Periods in Professor Wiggin’s tenure process..

        146.    As was the case with Professor Veikos, Professor Wiggin received a positive vote

for tenure from the Faculty in her Department, but the Personnel Committee vote was against

and contained negative references to her pace of production.

        147.    On May 12, 2011, with support from Professor Goodman, Professor Veikos wrote

to Lynn Hollen Lees, Vice Provost for Faculty, about the inadequacy of Penn’s efforts to rectify

its violation of the Policy on the Extension of Probationary Periods. Professor Veikos

specifically requested a new tenure review in the next academic year, and an extension of her

employment during the period of review.

        148.    At that time, Professor Veikos was still not yet aware of the other significant ways

in which Professor Braham had intentionally sabotaged her tenure candidacy because Penn

restricted her access to her tenure file.

        149.    On May 13, 2011, the Personnel Committee met to consider the responses from

the external reviewers about whether information about Penn’s Policy on the Extension of

Probationary Periods would change their opinions.

        150.    In her letter confirming the substance of that meeting addressed to Dean Taylor,

the Chair of the Personnel Committee stated that eight (8) of the external reviewers said the

additional information did not affect their previous opinions. However, she made no mention of

the reviewer who confirmed the information positively impacted her view of Professor Veikos’

productivity.




                                                 25
           Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 29 of 65




          151.   The Personnel Committee Chair’s May 13, 2011 letter also inaccurately asserted

that Professor Veikos’ probationary period had been extended to nine (9) years, when it had been

extended only once to eight (8) years.

          152.   On May 17, 2011, Vice Provost Lees responded to Professor Veikos’ complaint

about the processing of her tenure case. In that letter, Vice Provost Lees claimed that sending

follow up letters to the external reviewers about the failure to include the provisions required by

Penn’s Policy was a “sufficient remedy for the omission in the original letters.”

          153.   Vice Provost Lees also asserted that Penn requires tenured faculty to be “thought

leaders in their field,” and that issues of “quantity of production are secondary to judgments of

quality and intellectual eminence.”

          154.   Vice Provost Lee’s comments about the supposed reason for the Personnel

Committee’s negative vote directly contradicted Professor Braham’s explanations that it was

Professor Veikos’ quantity of production, and not the quality of her scholarship, that precluded

tenure.

          155.   Professor Veikos also confided in Professor Fierro about what had transpired. In

those communications, Professor Veikos learned of Professor Braham’s mishandling of how the

Faculty vote was reported to the Personnel Committee.

          156.   During the time she was consulting with Penn’s Ombudsman about her case,

Professor Veikos also contacted David Brownlee (male), the Chair of the Faculty Grievance

Committee, about her options.

          157.   Both Professor Veikos and Professor Fierro appealed to Professor Brownlee to

support a Grievance Committee review of the situation, and to consider continuing Professor




                                                 26
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 30 of 65




Veikos’ employment to allow for the tenure review process to be conducted again in a fair and

unbiased way.

        158.     By letter dated May 27, 2011, Dean Taylor acknowledged Professor Veikos’

requests for a re-review of her tenure case, confirmed that conversations were continuing, and

also reminded Professor Veikos that her employment at Penn was scheduled to end effective

June 30, 2011.

        159.     In the Spring 2011, soon after learning of the negative Personnel Committee vote,

Professor Wesley asked to meet with Professor Veikos. During their discussion, Professor

Wesley told Professor Veikos that she should feel “lucky” because she had a “good run.”

Professor Wesley discouraged her from advocating to Dean Taylor to take her tenure case to the

Provost in order to avoid a formal denial. That way, according to Professor Wesley, Professor

Veikos could leave “gracefully” and no one would ever know she had been denied tenure.

        160.     On June 8, 2011, Professor Veikos met with Professor Brownlee to talk about the

grievance process. During that discussion, Professor Brownlee attempted to talk Professor

Veikos out of filing a grievance, and instead to take advantage of the “good will” she had in

order to find some resolution short of a re-review of her tenure case. Professor Brownlee

indicated that Penn was considering an offer for Professor Veikos to stay in some capacity to

stabilize her financially.

        161.     Professor Brownlee also told Professor Veikos that he had not yet decided

whether he would find adequate grounds for a grievance in her case, even though her situation fit

squarely into the grievance requirements, which includes actions that are: (1) arbitrary and

capricious; (2) discriminatory with regard to gender; and/or (3) not in compliance with

University procedures or regulations.



                                                 27
        Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 31 of 65




       162.    During the same conversation, Professor Brownlee questioned whether Penn’s

Policy on the Extension of Probationary Periods was even helpful to working mothers.

According to Professor Brownlee, all of the men who had taken advantage of the policy obtained

tenure, but only a small percentage of women who had taken the extension obtained tenure.

       163.    Later the same day, Professor Veikos met with Dean Taylor about her options.

Professor Veikos communicated to Dean Taylor that the only way to remedy the significant

procedural errors was to allow a re-review in the normal cycle the following year, which would

include her continued employment during the re-review period. At that point, Professor Veikos’

employment was scheduled to terminate on June 30, 2011.

       164.    Professor Veikos also made Dean Taylor aware that she was considering filing a

formal grievance. In response, Dean Taylor asked her to consider how she wanted to spend her

next year at Penn – productively, or in a long and drawn out grievance procedure.

       165.    Dean Taylor advised Professor Veikos during the same discussion that she,

Professor Braham, and Professor Brownlee had all communicated together and decided that the

missing paragraph in the external review letters did not have any negative impact on her tenure

candidacy.

       166.    In their discussion, Dean Taylor repeatedly told Professor Veikos that she had

gotten an “extra” year to compile her tenure dossier, which was not only false but represented a

complete distortion of Penn’s policies.

       167.    Dean Taylor offered to “remedy” the situation by extending Professor Veikos’

employment for one year with the title of “Distinguished Fellow,” so that she would have time to

look for another job. When Professor Veikos asked her to confirm the offer in writing, Dean

Taylor said she was giving “her word.”



                                               28
           Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 32 of 65




       168.    At that point, no one from Penn had taken any steps to reasonably investigate

Professor Veikos’ concerns about Professor Braham’s misconduct in connection with her tenure

process.

       169.    Instead, Professor Wesley again sought out Professor Veikos, and while

purporting to empathize with her situation, discouraged her from pursuing a grievance. Professor

Wesley told Professor Veikos there was no one to blame with respect to her tenure denial, and

“things just happen.”

Professor Veikos’ Complaint of Discrimination and Penn’s Retaliatory Response

       170.    By letter dated June 15, 2011, Professor Veikos thanked the Dean for her offer to

continue her employment for one year so that she could conduct a job search, but reiterated her

request to move her application for promotion to Associate Professor with tenure to the Provost

despite the Personnel Committee’s negative vote.

       171.    In the same letter, Professor Veikos conveyed her intent to file a grievance with

the Faculty Grievance Committee, outlined the reasons for her complaint at length, and asked for

a written explanation of the reasons her tenure application was denied.

       172.    Professor Veikos expressly asserted her concerns that Professor Braham had

treated her differently than male candidates in the tenure process because of her gender and/or

because she had requested an extension of her probationary period when her son was born. She

also outlined a series of other incidents suggesting that Professor Braham and other male leaders

in the Department of Architecture were biased against women.

       173.    On the same date, Professor Veikos’ attorney wrote to Penn’s President, Amy

Gutmann, seeking a full review of the situation before her client’s employment terminated at the

end of the month.



                                                29
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 33 of 65




       174.       On the evening of June 30, 2011, Dean Taylor sent Professor Veikos a letter to set

forth the reasons her tenure case was not approved. Specifically, Dean Taylor claimed that Penn

denied tenure to Professor Veikos because: (1) the quality of her work was seen as “weak” by

several reviewers and faculty members; (2) her productivity did not meet expectations for

promotion, making the assessment in full awareness of the extension of her probationary period

for one year; and (3) there was little evidence presented that she was a thought leader in her field

and discipline.

       175.       In her June 30, 2011 letter, Dean Taylor also advised Professor Veikos that her

employment at Penn terminated effective that day, and she made no mention of her prior offer to

continue her employment for the upcoming academic year.

       176.       Professor Veikos was as qualified, if not more qualified, than the male professors

with and without caregiving responsibilities who were granted tenure in the Department of

Architecture.

       177.       The reasons stated by Penn in Dean Taylor’s letter for denying tenure to Professor

Veikos were false and just pretext for gender and familial status discrimination and retaliation.

       178.       Despite taking the position that Penn’s School of Design had done nothing wrong

with the processing of Professor Veikos’ tenure case, Dean Taylor advised Professor Veikos that

they had decided to conduct a “re-evaluation” of her case for tenure and promotion. Dean Taylor

stated that the re-evaluation process would begin “immediately,” but provided no other details of

the process.

       179.       The next day, July 1, 2011, Professor Veikos met with Professor Leatherbarrow at

length about her status. Professor Leatherbarrow confirmed that the Dean had chosen not to

move her tenure case forward to the Provost, so the re-evaluation was the only path to tenure.



                                                  30
           Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 34 of 65




       180.    As the new interim Chair of the Department, Professor Leatherbarrow would be

responsible for the re-evaluation process. In his meeting with Professor Veikos on July 1, 2011,

Professor Leatherbarrow said he could not predict the outcome, but assured his colleague that he

would handle it fairly, and he would argue in favor of tenure.

       181.    Later that day (July 1, 2011), Professor Veikos contacted Dean Taylor to discuss

the procedures for the re-evaluation, and to find out whether her offer of continued employment

was still available. Dean Taylor was very upset, and advised Professor Veikos that her actions

had “changed the tone of the conversation,” that they were where they were because of her letter,

that the conversation had really changed since she had “gotten a lawyer,” and the re-review

would “remove any hint of bias” from the case.

       182.    Upon information and belief, and in contrast to Professor Veikos’ situation, Penn

approved Professor Bethany Wiggin’s application for tenure after the Ombudsman, Joan

Goodman, became aware that the Personnel Committee’s negative decision in her case was

likely impacted by her Department’s violation of the Policy on the Extension of Probationary

Periods.

       183.    Upon information and belief, Professor Wiggin did not submit a complaint of

discrimination to Rebecca Bushnell, Dean of the School of Arts & Sciences, and Dean Bushnell

supported her case for tenure.

       184.    In Professor Veikos’ case, Dean Taylor refused to take her tenure case forward to

the Provost, and Penn refused to approve her promotion, in retaliation for her complaint of

discrimination.

       185.    Penn and Dean Taylor withdrew the prior offer to continue Professor Veikos’

employment for one year in retaliation for her complaint of discrimination.



                                                 31
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 35 of 65




Penn’s Discriminatory and Retaliatory Re-Review of Professor Veikos’ Tenure Case

       186.       Penn’s offer to conduct a “re-evaluation” of Professor Veikos’ tenure application

was nothing more than a misguided attempt to insulate itself from her legitimate claims of

discrimination arising out of the initial tenure review process.

       187.       Penn’s handling of the re-evaluation process was tainted by blatant retaliation

from the start.

       188.       In her initial communication about the “re-evaluation” of Professor Veikos’

tenure case, Dean Taylor suggested that the only thing that needed to be completed to move

forward was for Professor Veikos to submit three new names for external reviewers.

       189.       At that time, Penn made no attempts to correct the numerous mistakes made

during the first tenure review process, as outlined in Professor Veikos’ June 15, 2011 letter to

Dean Taylor.

       190.       By letter dated July 22, 2011, Dean Taylor provided Professor Veikos

“clarification” of the procedures relating to the re-evaluation, supposedly so that Penn could

move forward with the process in a “timely” manner. The letter identified deadlines for

Professor Veikos to submit updated dossier materials based on a target date of August 15, 2011

to send the tenure file to the external reviewers. Dean Taylor also advised Professor Veikos that

she was expected to vacate her office by August 22, 2011.

       191.       Dean Taylor demanded that Professor Veikos meet these deadlines with respect to

her tenure dossier with knowledge that Professor Veikos’ book publication deadline was also

August 15, 2011. Dean Taylor’s purposeful interference with Professor Veikos’ publishing

obligations was motivated by retaliatory bias.




                                                   32
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 36 of 65




       192.    In response, Professor Veikos requested additional time to have the dossier

materials updated to address the prior errors and omissions, as well as to have them

professionally bound and printed. She also asked if she could continue to have access to her

office and the University’s resources during the re-evaluation process, which was critical to her

ability to meet her publication deadlines. Finally, Professor Veikos asked Dean Taylor to

reconsider her prior offer to extend her employment, if not for the full year, then during the re-

evaluation process.

       193.    Despite being faced with unreasonable and retaliatory demands and deadlines,

Professor Veikos met all requirements imposed by Penn with respect to the re-evaluation of her

tenure case.

       194.    By letter dated August 8, 2011, at Dean Taylor’s request, Professor Veikos

identified the errors and omissions contained in the package of her dossier materials when they

were presented to the external reviewers during the initial tenure application process.

       195.    Professor Veikos submitted the corrected versions of her dossier on August 15,

2011 (the digital dossier to be printed and bound), and on August 18, 2011 (in three hard copy

volumes).

       196.    Despite the rushed deadline for submission, and Dean Taylor’s representation that

the dossier would be sent to external reviewers in August, Professor Leatherbarrow contacted

Professor Veikos in mid-September to request additional changes to her Curriculum Vitae,

confirming that the deadlines imposed by Penn were both arbitrary and retaliatory.

       197.    Specifically, Penn asked Professor Veikos to: (1) change her dates of

employment at Penn to reflect that her employment ended; (2) change her role with regard to

Ph.D. Dissertations from “Supervision” to “Advising”; (3) change the references from “External



                                                 33
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 37 of 65




Examiner” to “Visiting Critic” at other Universities; (4) divide the list of her publications to

identify “Manuscripts” (to be published) separately from “Books” (already published); and (5)

list “Articles in Peer-Reviewed Journals- Manuscripts” and “Articles in Peer-Reviewed Journals”

separately.

       198.    Professor Veikos made the requested changes to her Curriculum Vitae, even

though the prior version was consistent with the Curriculum Vitae that Professor Rahim (male)

had submitted in support of his application for his further promotion to Full Professor (for

example, listing his manuscripts approved for publication under the “Books” heading with a

notation that they were “forthcoming,” not separately under a separate heading for

“Manuscripts”).

       199.    Penn did not send Professor Veikos’ dossier to the external reviewers until

October 31, 2011, and requested that responses be submitted by December 5, 2011. This time, at

least, the letter contained the language about the extension of Professor Veikos’ probationary

period as required by Penn Policy.

       200.    Upon information and belief, the letters solicited from external reviewers during

the re-evaluation process were primarily “neutral” with respect to Professor Veikos’ candidacy

for tenure. Such an outcome was expected in light of Penn’s insistence that Professor Veikos

highlight on her Curriculum Vitae that she was no longer working at Penn. Few external

consultants would risk their reputation by strongly advocating for tenure in such a situation

regardless of how impressed they were by the candidate’s credentials.

       201.    Despite Professor Veikos’ objection to the prior selection of Professors Rahim

and Weiss to serve on the Ad Hoc Committee for her tenure review, Professor Leatherbarrow

asked them to serve in the same role for the re-evaluation process.



                                                 34
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 38 of 65




        202.   In the “new” letter from this Ad Hoc Committee, which was almost identical to

the letter they submitted in connection with the first review, Professors Rahim and Weiss failed

to correct even the most obvious errors that were identified by Professor Veikos in her letter to

Dean Taylor on June 15, 2011, including their inaccurate identification of the start of her

probationary period as 2002, rather than 2003.

        203.   By letter dated January 20, 2012, Professor Fierro, submitted a letter in

unqualified support of Professor Veikos’ tenure case as she had in the first review.

        204.   On February 1, 2012, Frank Matero (male), one of the Full Professors in the

Department, sent an e-mail to Professor Leatherbarrow opposing Professor Veikos’ application

for tenure, although he would not be available to participate in the Department vote.

        205.   Upon information and belief, it is against the School of Design’s tenure

procedures for a Professor to vote or opine on a tenure file if he or she is not present for the

Department discussion and formal vote.

        206.   Professor Matero had previously voted in favor of Professor Veikos’ tenure case,

and his strong opposition to her application in the re-review process was motivated by retaliatory

bias.

        207.   On February 1, 2012, seven of the eight members of the tenured Faculty of the

Department of Architecture met to discuss and vote on the re-evaluation of Professor Veikos’

case for tenure. The Faculty voted: two (2) in favor of tenure, and five (5) against.

        208.   Professor Leatherbarrow, who had unequivocally supported Professor Veikos’

tenure case the first time, changed his vote, and recommended against promotion.

        209.   In addition to Professors Braham, Matero and Leatherbarrow, at least one other

Professor changed his or her vote to against promotion. Since nothing else had changed with



                                                 35
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 39 of 65




respect to Professor Veikos’ tenure file that would warrant a negative vote, other than her filing

of discrimination complaints, the new negative Faculty votes were clearly motivated by

retaliation.

        210.   The Personnel Committee met on February 29, 2012, to reconsider Professor

Veikos’ case for tenure, and voted two (2) in favor of tenure and three (3) against.

        211.   The Personnel Committee’s decision was significantly influenced by the

Department’s negative vote and retaliatory bias, including that of the interim Chair, David

Leatherbarrow, and Frank Matero, who also served on the Personnel Committee.

        212.   At the time of the re-evaluation for tenure, Professor Veikos was as qualified, if

not more qualified, than male Professors with and without caregiving responsibilities whose

applications for tenure were granted.

        213.   Penn denied Professor Veikos’ tenure application following the re-evaluation

process because of her gender (female), familial status (mother), and in retaliation for her

complaints of discrimination.

        214.   Penn did not advise Professor Veikos of the tenure denial following the re-

evaluation until May 7, 2012, almost two months after the Personnel Committee’s letter was

delivered to the Dean, even though the Guidelines issued by the American Association of

University Professors (AAUP) advise against such communications beyond March 15, or April

15 at the latest, of any academic year.

        215.   On Monday, May 21, 2012, Professor Veikos went to Penn to collect some of her

personal belongings, which she understood had been placed in storage when the Dean insisted

that she vacate her office due to the limited availability of office space. When she arrived on




                                                36
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 40 of 65




campus, Professor Veikos was led to her former office, which was set up exactly how she had

left it the prior August, and had never been used.

       216.    While on campus, Professor Veikos ran into Professor Matero, who

disingenuously claimed, despite his advocacy against her tenure application: “I am sorry

Cathrine, I did everything I could. It’s a tragedy.”

The Devastating Impact of Penn’s Illegal Actions On Professor Veikos’ Career and Well-Being

       217.    Following Penn’s notice dated June 30, 2011 that it had denied her tenure

application, and her employment was terminated effective that day, Professor Veikos’ world was

turned upside down.

       218.    As a result of Penn’s discriminatory and retaliatory conduct, Professor Veikos

experienced devastating upheaval to her life and the emotional distress that went with it.

       219.    As the primary financial support for her family, Professor Veikos knew she had to

quickly find new employment. At the time, her son was about to turn five (5) years old.

       220.    Professor Veikos was also facing the deadlines for her book, which needed to be

met by August 15, 2011, and additional deadlines thereafter, if she wanted to keep on the

publishing schedule. Yet, she had no longer had financial or administrative support or even space

to continue her work.

       221.    As a result of Penn’s discriminatory and retaliatory conduct, the publication of

Professor Veikos’ first book was delayed, and she was forced to abandon her goal of publishing

her second book.

       222.    Professor Veikos was able to secure employment at California College of the Arts

(CCA) as a Visiting Architect for the 2011/2012 academic year. Although it was a relief to find




                                                 37
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 41 of 65




employment, the new position required Professor Veikos to uproot her son from a stable

community environment and move across the country.

       223.    As a result of Penn’s discriminatory and retaliatory conduct, Professor Veikos

was forced to live apart from her aging parents who lived on the East Coast in order to provide

financial support for her family.

       224.    As a result of Penn’s discriminatory and retaliatory conduct, Professor Veikos

suffered embarrassment, humiliation, mental anguish, and a complete derailment of her career in

academia.

       225.    As a result of Penn’s discriminatory and retaliatory conduct, Professor Veikos has

suffered, and continues to suffer, a loss of earnings and/or earning capacity, and significant

reputational harm.

       226.    Penn’s discriminatory and retaliatory actions were willful and implemented with

malice and/or a reckless disregard for Professor Veikos’ civil rights and warrant the imposition

of punitive damages.

Plaintiff’s Administrative Filings and The PCHR’s Cause Findings

       227.    The PCHR, the administrative agency in Philadelphia authorized to enforce the

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance, conducted an extensive investigation of Professor Veikos’

complaints of discrimination and retaliation, including interviews of multiple witnesses and a

review of thousands of pages of documents.

       228.    The PCHR issued its Findings of the Investigation on December 31, 2019, in

which it concluded: (1) The evidence shows [Penn’s] denial of tenure to [Professor Veikos] in

the instant matters more than likely occurred because of [her] gender (female) and her familial

status (mother); and (2) The evidence shows [Penn’s] denial of an extension of [Professor



                                                 38
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 42 of 65




Veikos’] employment more than likely occurred because of her involvement in a legally

protected anti-discrimination activity. A true and correct copy of the PCHR Findings of the

Investigation are attached as Exhibit A.

                                             COUNT I
                              Gender Discrimination in violation of
                             Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

        229.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as though

fully set forth herein.

        230.    Defendant violated Title VII by denying Professor Veikos’ applications for

promotion to Associate Professor with tenure because of her gender.

                                          COUNT II
                            Gender Discrimination in violation of the
                              Pennsylvania Human Relations Act

        231.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as though

fully set forth herein.

        232.    Defendant violated the PHRA by denying Professor Veikos’ applications for

promotion to Associate Professor with tenure because of her gender.

                                          COUNT III
                            Gender Discrimination in violation of the
                             Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance

        233.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as though

fully set forth herein.

        234.    Defendant violated the PFPO by denying Professor Veikos’ applications for

promotion to Associate Professor with tenure because of her gender.




                                                39
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 43 of 65




                                            COUNT IV
                          Familial Status Discrimination in violation of the
                               Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance

        235.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as though

fully set forth herein.

        236.    Defendant violated the PFPO by denying Professor Veikos’ applications for

promotion to Associate Professor with tenure because of her familial status (mother).

                                              COUNT V
                                     Retaliation in violation of
                              Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

        237.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as though

fully set forth herein.

        238.    Defendant violated Title VII by denying Professor Veikos’ applications for

promotion to Associate Professor with tenure and by withdrawing the offer of continued

employment as a Distinguished Fellow in retaliation for her good faith complaints of

discrimination.

                                           COUNT VI
                                  Retaliation in violation of the
                                Pennsylvania Human Relations Act

        239.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as though

fully set forth herein.

        240.    Defendant violated the PHRA by denying Professor Veikos’ applications for

promotion to Associate Professor with tenure and by withdrawing the offer of continued

employment as a Distinguished Fellow in retaliation for her good faith complaints of

discrimination.




                                                 40
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 44 of 65




                                            COUNT VII
                                   Retaliation in violation of the
                               Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance

        241.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates by reference the foregoing paragraphs as though

fully set forth herein.

        242.    Defendant violated the PFPO by denying Professor Veikos’ applications for

promotion to Associate Professor with tenure and by withdrawing the offer of continued

employment as a Distinguished Fellow in retaliation for her good faith complaints of

discrimination.

                                       PRAYER FOR RELIEF

        WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Cathrine Veikos, respectfully requests that this Court enter

judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant as follows:

        A.      Declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be a violation of the Title

VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;

        B.      Declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be a violation of the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Act;

        C.      Declaring the acts and practices complained of herein to be a violation of the

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance;

        D.      Awarding to Plaintiff injunctive relief by ordering Penn to reinstate her to the

position of Associate Professor of Architecture and grant her tenure as soon as practicable;

        E.      Awarding to Plaintiff compensation for all past and future pecuniary losses

resulting from Defendant’s illegal actions, including but not limited to lost earnings, lost

earnings growth potential, all compensation and benefits lost due to the actions of Defendant, all




                                                 41
         Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 45 of 65




out-of-pocket losses, as well as an award of front pay if employment with Defendant in the

position of Associate Professor of Architecture with tenure is not possible;

        F.     Awarding to Plaintiff compensatory damages for all past and future non-

pecuniary damages resulting from Defendant’s illegal actions, including emotional distress,

mental anguish, humiliation, and reputational harm;

        G.     Awarding to Plaintiff punitive damages for Defendant’s malicious and reckless

conduct as described herein;

        H.     Awarding to Plaintiff all costs of this action, together with reasonable attorneys’

fees;

        I.     Awarding to Plaintiff prejudgment interest;

        J.     Awarding to Plaintiff the sum necessary to make up for any adverse tax

consequences incurred by her as result of any judgment entered in this matter; and

        K.     Awarding to Plaintiff such additional relief as the Court deems just and proper

under the circumstances.

                                   JURY TRIAL DEMANDED

        Plaintiff hereby requests a jury trial on each of the Counts in this Complaint.



                                              CONSOLE MATTIACCI LAW, LLC


                                              s/ Julie A. Uebler
                                              Julie A. Uebler, Esquire (ID No. 71297)
                                              1525 Locust Street, 9th Floor
                                              Philadelphia, PA 19102
                                              (215) 545-7676 (Voice)
                                              (215) 501-5957 (Fax)
                                              uebler@consolelaw.com

                                              Attorneys for Plaintiff
                                              Cathrine Veikos
                                                 42
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 46 of 65




  EXHIBIT A
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 47 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 48 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 49 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 50 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 51 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 52 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 53 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 54 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 55 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 56 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 57 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 58 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 59 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 60 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 61 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 62 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 63 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 64 of 65
Case 2:20-cv-04408-JDW Document 1 Filed 09/09/20 Page 65 of 65
