Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/72117324/1/hudgins-v-city-of-philadelphia/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in HUDGINS v. CITY OF PHILADELPHIA (E.D. Pa., 2:26-cv-00092) – CourtListener.com

       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM          Document 1       Filed 01/07/26     Page 1 of 36




MY WORK ATTORNEY, LLC
Amanda N. Martinez, Esq. (338141)                                         Counsel for Plaintiff
1315 Walnut St Ste 801
Philadelphia, PA 19107
215-445-1482
amanda@myworkattorney.com

                           UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                         EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


 ANTHONY HUDGINS

                Plaintiff,
        v.                                                Civil Action No. _________

 CITY OF PHILADELPHIA,
 PHILADELPHIA FIRE DEPARTMENT,                            Complaint and Jury Demand
 MAYOR CHERELLE PARKER,                                   Demanded
 TIFFANY THURMAN,
 FIRE COMMISSIONER JEFFREY
 THOMPSON,
 LOCAL 22 OF THE INTERNATIONAL
 ASSOCIATION OF FIRE FIGHTERS,
 MICHAEL BRESNAN,
 JACQULYN MURPHY,
 MARIAN FARRIS,
 TABITHA BOYLE,
 CHRISTINA QUINONES, and
 DANA JACKSON

                Defendants.


                                       CIVIL ACTION

       Plaintiff, Anthony Hudgins, by and through his attorney, Amanda N. Martinez, Esq. at

My Work Attorney, LLC, bring this civil matter against Defendants, for violations pursuant to

Pennsylvania Whistleblower Law (“PWL” – 43 P.S. §§ 1421 et. seq.), 14th Amendment of the

United States Constitution (by and through 42 U.S.C. § 1983), Title VII of the Civil Rights Act

of 1964 (“Title VII” – 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e, et. seq.), the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act
        Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM                Document 1          Filed 01/07/26         Page 2 of 36




(“PHRA” – 43 Pa. C.S. §§ 951 et. seq.)1, Defamation, False Light, Tortious Interference, and

Civil Conspiracy under Pennsylvania Common Law. Plaintiff seeks damages as set forth more

fully herein.

                                             INTRODUCTION

        Plaintiff Anthony Hudgins, a 31-year veteran of the Philadelphia Fire Department (PFD),

brings this action following his retaliatory demotion. Around October 2024, Chief Hudgins

uncovered overtime fraud activities involving paramedic Jacqulyn Murphy and payroll

supervisor Marian Farris. To stop his review into their illegal conduct, the two women made

threats to punish Chief Hudgins, spread lies that he was a sexual harasser, submitted bad-faith

sexual harassment claims against him, and solicited other female employees to do the same.

Chief Hudgins complained that the women’s claims were in retaliation to his overtime review,

but the City refused to investigate his complaints and refused to protect him from Murphy and

Farris. Instead, the City placed Chief Hudgins on leave and spent around $30,000 to investigate

the bad faith complaints against him.

        Around July 2025, the City’s internal investigation report into the sexual harassment

accusations recommended that Chief Hudgins return to work. The investigation found no

substantiated verbal misconduct and only that he had “hugged” coworkers, a behavior that his

supervisor Fire Commissioner Thompson positively characterized to Chief Hudgins as “you

were just being you.” On September 9, 2025, the City’s Office of Inspector General (OIG)

confirmed that Chief Hudgins’s accusers Murphy and Farris worked together to significantly

defraud the City for at least two years, and stated that Chief Hudgins initially uncovered the


1
 Reference to the PHRA is made for notice purposes only. Plaintiff’s administrative remedies are not fully
exhausted for proceeding under such claims yet and are currently pending before the PHRC. Plaintiff will move to
amend the instant lawsuit to include claims under the PHRA following administrative exhaustion, and such claims
will mirror identically federal claims asserted hereinunder Title VII.


                                                         2
        Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1       Filed 01/07/26      Page 3 of 36




wrongdoing. After realizing the magnitude of this fraud by the two women, the City withheld the

fraud findings from the public and demanded that Mr. Hudgins be disciplined. It demoted Mr.

Hudgins exactly one month after the OIG’s fraud findings, backdated his demotion by 10 days,

cut his pay by about $75,000, and moved him to an isolated non-supervisory position. In further

harm to Mr. Hudgins’s reputation, the City publicly commented in the Philadelphia Inquirer that

Mr. Hudgins was demoted, while intentionally withholding the OIG’s findings that his accusers

Murphy and Farris were proven fraudsters.

        In support thereof, Plaintiff avers as follows:

                                          THE PARTIES

   1.    Plaintiff Anthony Hudgins (“Plaintiff”, “Chief Hudgins”, or “Mr. Hudgins”) is an adult

individual residing at 526 N 53rd St, Philadelphia, PA 19131. He is currently employed by

Defendants City of Philadelphia and Philadelphia Fire Department as an Incident Safety Officer.

   2.    Defendant City of Philadelphia (the “City”) is a municipality of the Commonwealth of

Pennsylvania and it owns, operates, manages, directs, and controls the Philadelphia Fire

Department, which employs Mayor Cherelle Parker, Tiffany Thurman, Jeffrey Thompson, as

well as other individuals identified herein, who/whom are relevant and at all times were acting

under color of state law, and operating pursuant to official policies, customs, and practices of

Defendant. It’s Litigation Department, Labor & Employment Unit is located at 1515 Arch St

Floor 14, Philadelphia, PA, 19102.

   3.    Defendant City of Philadelphia agreed, accepted, adopted, approved, acquiesced, and/or

otherwise is bound by the actions, omission, and conduct of its officers, managers, supervisor,

employees, and contractors, acting in accordance with his/her/their authority, including




                                                   3
         Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM          Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 4 of 36




Defendants Jeffrey Thompson, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Tiffany Thurman, Jacqulyn Murphy, and

Marian Farris, Tabita Boyle, Christina Quinones, and Dana Jackson.

   4.     Defendant Philadelphia Fire Department (“PFD”) is a public sector organization that

provides fire protection and emergency medical services to Defendant City of Philadelphia. Its

headquarters is located at 240 Spring Garden Street, Philadelphia, PA 19123.

   5.     Defendant Jeffrey Thompson (hereinafter referred to as “Defendant Thompson” or

“Fire Commissioner Thompson”), is an adult individual employed by the PFD and the City, and

at all times relevant, was a superior and supervisor to Plaintiff. This individual is being sued for

both his individual capacity and official capacity.

   6.     Defendant Mayor Cherelle Parker (“Defendant Parker” or “Mayor”) is an adult

individual employed by City as Mayor, the highest ranking official therein, and thus at all times

relevant, was a superior to Plaintiff. This individual is being sued for both his individual capacity

and official capacity.

   7.     Defendant Tiffany Thurman ( “Defendant Thurman” or “Ms. Thurman”) is an adult

individual employed by City as the Chief of Staff for Mayor Cherelle Parker and directly reports

to Mayor Cherelle Parker, and thus at all times relevant, was a superior to Plaintiff. This

individual is being sued for both his individual capacity and official capacity.

   8.     Defendant Local 22 of The International Association Of Fire Fighters (“the Union” or

“IAFF Local 22”), is a labor union for professional firefighters, paramedics, EMTs, and officers

of the Philadelphia Fire Department. Its main office is located at 415 N 5th St, Philadelphia, PA

19123.




                                                  4
        Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM            Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 5 of 36




   9.    Defendant Michael Bresnan ( “Defendant Bresnan” or “Mr. Bresnan”), is an adult

individual employed by Defendant IAFF, Local 22 as President. This individual is being sued for

both his individual capacity and official capacity.

   10. Jacqulyn Murphy (“Defendant Murphy”) is an adult individual, upon information and

belief, resides at 1421 S. Swarthmore Ave, Swarthmore PA 19081, and was employed by

Defendants PFD and the City from around 2009 until around September 2025 as a Paramedic.

   11. Marian Farris (“Defendant Farris”) is an adult individual, upon information and belief,

resides at 1509 Belmont Ave, Philadelphia, PA 19104 and was employed by the PFD and the

City from around 2016 until around March 2025 as the Payroll Supervisor.

   12. Tabitha Boyle (“Defendant Boyle”) is an adult individual, upon information and belief,

resides at 1421 S. Swarthmore Ave, Swarthmore PA 19081 and is employed by Defendants PFD

and the City as a Paramedic.

   13. Christina Quinones (“Defendant Quinones”) is an adult individual, upon information

and belief, resides at 634 Moredun Road, Huntingdon Valley, PA 19006, and is employed by

Defendants PFD and the City as a Firefighter and aide to Deputy Fire Commissioner Carl

Randolph (Car 3).

   14. Dana Jackson (“Defendant Jackson”) is an adult individual and is employed by

Defendants PFD and the City as the Professional Standards Officer.

                                 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

   15. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   16. The Court may properly maintain personal jurisdiction over Defendants because the

Defendants’ contacts with this state and this judicial district are sufficient for the exercise of

jurisdiction and comply with traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice, thus



                                                   5
        Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM            Document 1          Filed 01/07/26    Page 6 of 36




satisfying the standard set forth by the United States Supreme Court in International Shoe Co. v.

Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945) and its progeny.

    17. The Court may exercise original subject-matter jurisdiction over the instant action

pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331 and 1343(a)(4) because it arises under the laws of the United

States and seeks redress for violations of federal law.

    18. The Court may also maintain supplemental jurisdiction over state law claims set forth

herein pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1367(a) and Rule 18(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure

because they are sufficiently related to one or more claims within the Court’s original

jurisdiction that they form part of the same case or controversy.

    19. Venue is properly laid in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§

1391(b)(1) and 1391(b)(2) because Plaintiff is domiciled in this judicial district, Defendants are

located in this judicial district and because all of the acts and/or omissions giving rise to the

claims set forth herein occurred in this judicial district.

                     EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

    20. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

    21. Plaintiff exhausted his administrative remedies under Title VII and the PHRA.

    22. Plaintiff timely filed a Charge of Discrimination (“Charge”) with the U.S. Equal

Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) alleging sex discrimination, hostile work

environment, and retaliation against Defendants the City and PFD.

    23. The Charge was assigned Charge Number 530-2026-02337 and was dual filed with the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”).




                                                    6
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1       Filed 01/07/26      Page 7 of 36




   24. The EEOC issued Plaintiff a Dismissal and Notice of Rights (“Right to Sue”) relative to

the Charge and that Notice was dated January 5, 2026 for 530-2026-02337. Plaintiff received the

notice by electronic mail.

   25. Plaintiff files the instant Complaint within ninety (90) days of the receipt of Plaintiff’s

Right to Sue in this matter.

   26. Plaintiff has exhausted Plaintiff’s administrative remedies as to the allegations of this

Complaint.

                                      MATERIAL FACTS

   27. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

                  Chief Hudgins Dedicates Over Three Decades to the PFD,
                        Rising to First Deputy Commissioner (Car 2)

   28. Throughout Chief Hudgins’s distinguished 31-year career, he performed his duties with

the highest level of integrity and advanced through the ranks. On May 9, 1994, he started his

career with the PFD as a Fire Fighter. On May 30, 2000, he was promoted to Lieutenant. On

June 29, 2006, he was promoted to Captain. On June 3, 2011, he was promoted to Battalion

Chief. On December 04, 2015, he was promoted to Deputy Chief. On December 13, 2021, he

was promoted to Deputy Commissioner (Car 3). Around June 2024, he was promoted to the

position of 1st Fire Deputy Commissioner (Car 2).

   29. Throughout his tenure, Chief Hudgins was consistently praised for his integrity and

hard work. He was well-regarded for his inquisitive nature and attention to detail. Chief Hudgins

also served in specialized roles, including a tenure as the department’s Special Investigations

Officer. In this capacity, he handled complex internal matters and worked to maintain the

professional standards of the force. He also represented the PFD in Fiscal Year budget

testimonies, advocating for essential resources and safety upgrades.


                                                 7
         Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM        Document 1       Filed 01/07/26      Page 8 of 36




   30. Chief Hudgins’s base salary as 1st Fire Deputy Commissioner was $230,000 per year.

   Around October 2024, Chief Hudgins Begins to Investigate Potential Overtime Fraud
            Within the PFD and Reports His Initial Findings to Leadership

   31. In or around October 2024, Theodore Quedenfeld, a Battalion Chief at the PFD, spoke

with and texted Chief Hudgins regarding Defendant Murphy’s compensation in which she

received an abnormally high salary as a staff paramedic in the PFD. This discussion prompted

Chief Hudgins to review Defendant Murphy and other PFD members’ overtime payments.

   32. To establish a baseline for his investigation, Chief Hudgins performed a review of the

Paramedic Continuous Quality Assurance (CQA) team’s 2024 overtime data. He reviewed this

data to establish whether Defendant Murphy’s overtime payments were within the normal range

for members of the Continuous Quality Assurance team or her overtime payments were

disproportionately higher compared to her peers. As part of his review, Chief Hudgins initially

requested the necessary paramedic staff information from Defendant Marian Farris (PFD Payroll

Supervisor). However, Defendant Farris was reluctant to provide any substantive data.

Thereafter, Chief Hudgins’s staff independently analyzed overtime reports and weekly roll call

sheets via the PFD SharePoint to flag any discrepancies and potentially excessive overtime

hours.

   33. In or around October 2024, with the authorization of the PFD’s Human Resources

Director Princess Cencerae Ray, Chief Hudgins worked with City Administrative Officer Garrett

Dietz to organize and analyze the CQA’s 2024 overtime data. Mr. Dietz’s analysis compared

Defendant Murphy’s overtime records against those of eight peer paramedics. The findings

revealed that Defendant Murphy’s payments were disproportionately higher than her peers. In

2024, excluding Defendant Murphy, the eight other paramedics averaged about 24 overtime

payments in one year, nearly all backed by approved overtime sheets. Every overtime payment


                                                8
        Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM               Document 1         Filed 01/07/26         Page 9 of 36




required submission and approval of an overtime request form. In contrast with her peers,

Defendant Murphy had 286 payments. Of the 286 overtime payments, 232 overtime request

forms were missing. Based on the analysis, Defendant Murphy likely received 232 payments for

unauthorized overtime in 2024.

    34. Defendant Farris, as the Payroll Supervisor, intentionally and knowingly processed the

unauthorized overtime payments to Defendant Murphy.

    35. In or around October 2024, during a meeting with the highest levels of PFD leadership

(Fire Commissioner Thompson, Deputy Commissioner Carl Randolph, Deputy Commissioner

Martin McCall, and Assistant Deputy Commissioner Derek Bowmer) Chief Hudgins discussed

his findings. He stated that he was looking into overtime fraud within the PFD and that he

believed there was fraudulent activity, specifically naming Defendant Murphy, but needed more

time to review the data before making a final call on whether it was an isolated incident or more

widespread.

    36. In or around early November 2024, HR Director Ray informed Chief Hudgins that she

had received a notice from the IRS regarding Defendant Murphy. The notice indicated that the

City, in its capacity as the employer, had failed to withhold taxes for Defendant Murphy and

stated that she did not qualify for a tax exemption. Per the IRS's directive for the City to notify

the employee of this discrepancy, Chief Hudgins gave the letter to Defendant Murphy.2




2
 The Office of the Inspector General's (OIG) investigation later revealed that Defendant Farris manipulated
Defendant Murphy’s federal tax withholding exemptions. This allowed Defendant Murphy to receive a significantly
higher net pay by circumventing required tax withholdings.


                                                       9
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM          Document 1       Filed 01/07/26     Page 10 of 36




       Around November 2024, Defendant Murphy, Defendant Farris, and other
 Female Employees File Bad-Faith Sexual Harassment Claims Against Chief Hudgins To
                   Stop His Overtime Review and Get Him Fired

   37. In or around November 2024, before Chief Hudgins could interview Defendant Murphy

or Defendant Farris as part of his overtime review, both Defendants maliciously spread false

statements to others at work that Chief Hudgins was a sexual harasser. They boasted they would

ensure he would be punished.

   38. On or around November 4, 2024, a PFD employee (who reported to Chief Hudgins)

was standing outside near the PFD parking lot. The employee witnessed Defendant Murphy walk

outside and fall to her knees screaming and crying. Defendant Murphy’s wife Tabitha Boyle

(also a paramedic at the PFD), walked outside and told Defendant Murphy to come back into the

building. As Defendants Murphy and Boyle walked back into the building, Defendant Boyle

yelled at the employee saying something like, “YOU BETTER HAVE A BACKUP PLAN

READY, BECAUSE HUDGINS IS GOING THE F*** DOWN AND GETTING KICKED

OUT OF HIS SPOT AND YOU’RE GOING THE F*** DOWN WITH HIM!”

   39. Defendant Murphy agreed with Defendant Boyle’s aforementioned statements.

   40. In or around November 2024, Defendant Murphy and Farris gathered other female

employees, including but not limited to Defendants Boyle, Quinones, Jackson, to help them file

the bad faith sexual harassment claims against Chief Hudgins.

   41. In or around November 2024, employees witnessed Defendant Murphy trying to recruit

other females at work. Defendant Murphy approached one female employee at the PFD asking,

“Do you want to get in on this lawsuit?” Another female employee sitting nearby responded,

“What are you talking about?” Defendant Murphy responded something like “against Hudgins . .

. well if you want to get some money and get on this with us - for sexual harassment.” Both



                                                10
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1       Filed 01/07/26      Page 11 of 36




female employees in shock, immediately refused, stating that it was wrong what Defendant

Murphy was trying to do to Chief Hudgins.

   42. Also, Defendant Quinones cold-called other female employees at work to find

additional women to join in on their claims against Chief Hudgins.

   43. Defendants Murphy, Farris, Boyle, Quinones, and Jackson conspired to create a

manufactured sexual harassment scandal and punish him as a male supervisor, effectively using

the City’s Sexual Harassment Prevention Policy to further their unlawful activities.

   44. Upon information and belief, the City and PFD had actual knowledge of Defendant

Murphy’s pattern of filing dubious harassment claims against male supervisors to avoid

accountability and evade authority. This history includes prior complaints lodged against Station

Captain Robert Taylor and Paramedic Emergency Services Chief Russell Bryant. Despite this,

the City and PFD demonstrated deliberate indifference and failed to scrutinize Defendant

Murphy’s credibility. The City and PFD permitted Defendant Murphy’s bad-faith accusations

against Chief Hudgins to move forward.

                Around December 2024, Fire Commissioner Thompson tells
             Chief Hudgins not to go back into the office and to work from home

   45. In or around early December 2024, Chief Hudgins received a call from Fire

Commissioner Thompson. On the call, Fire Commissioner Thompson told Chief Hudgins not to

return to the office and to avoid PFD’s headquarters until the investigation into the harassment

allegations was complete. He was permitted to work remotely.

   46. This decision removed Chief Hudgins from the PFD premises and prevented his

overtime review.

   47. On the same call, Chief Hudgins told Fire Commissioner Thompson that he was being

retaliated against and that the women were fabricating sexual harassment accusations to destroy


                                                 11
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1       Filed 01/07/26     Page 12 of 36




his career and punish him for looking into the overtime fraud. In response, Fire Commissioner

Thompson told Chief Hudgins not to come into the office and that hopefully the sexual

harrassment investigation would not take long to complete.

   48. Despite Chief Hudgins’s complaints of retaliation, Defendants the City, PFD and Fire

Commissioner Thompson offered no protections to Chief Hudgins and did not open up an

investigation regarding the women’s retaliatory and harassing behavior against Chief Hudgins.

   49. Around early January 2025, Fire Commissioner Thompson called Chief Hudgins and

told him that he could continue to work remotely but “don’t make any decisions”.

   50. In or around January 2025, Chief Hudgins submitted his initial findings of overtime

fraud to the City’s Office of Inspector General (OIG), led by Inspector General Alexander F.

DeSantis. The OIG continued the investigation.

                Around April 2025, Defendant Farris Resigns from the PFD

   51. On or around April 7, 2025, during the OIG’s investigation into the overtime fraud, and

while Chief Hudgins was still working remotely, Defendant Farris (payroll supervisor) resigned

from the PFD. Her alleged reasons for resigning included anxiety, depression, toxicity within the

department, hostile work environment from her staff within the payroll unit, her personal

information given to outside sources for review, employees reviewing her income and sharing it

with others, and having to be part of a harassment investigation.

   52. Upon information and belief, the real reason behind Ms. Farris’s resignation was her

awareness that she was being scrutinized by the OIG’s investigation into her fraudulent activities

alongside Defendant Murphy, thus Ms. Farris resigned before the PFD could fire her for gross

misconduct.




                                                 12
        Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM               Document 1          Filed 01/07/26         Page 13 of 36




     53. Her alleged reasons for resignation did not state or suggest that Chief Hudgins had ever

harassed her or that she was resigning in order to avoid Chief Hudgins.

     54. Instead, Defendant Farris published false statements to the Philadelphia Inquirer that

Chief Hudgins sexually harassed her.

     On May 6, 2025, Defendant Murphy and Defendant Farris Publish Their False Sexual
    Harassment Claims in The Philadelphia Inquirer, and IAFF Local 22 Falsely Implicates
                         Chief Hudgins As A Serial Sexual Harasser

     55. On May 6, 2025, the Philadelphia Inquirer (“Inquirer”) published an article titled

“Harassment and Overtime Fraud Probes Collide at Top Levels of the Philly Fire Department.”3

     56. Defendants Murphy and Farris made statements to the Inquirer to publicly and

maliciously spread their false claims that Chief Hudgins was a sexual harasser. The cited

“department staffer [who] said she was targeted in the overtime probe” was Defendant Murphy.

The cited “second woman who recently quit the department” was Defendant Farris.

     57. In the article, Defendant Farris falsely “alleged that Hudgins demanded hugs, pulled her

hair and unbuttoned his pants in her cubicle, telling her he needed to adjust his shirt.”

     58. Defendant Farris also falsely “claimed he’d used intimidation tactics to pressure her to

adjust timesheets for an aide”.

     59. Defendant Farris also in a false or false impression manner stated “she quit her job to

avoid him but feared speaking on the record now because she may seek to return to work at the

department at some point.”4




3
  See https://www.inquirer.com/news/philadelphia/philadelphia-fire-department-anthony-hudgins-investigation-
20250506.html
4
  As stated earlier, Mr. Hudgins was about four months his remote work arrangement when Defendant Farris
resigned. He had no contact with her while remotely working. Thus, it is highly unlikely that Defendant Farris
resigned specifically to avoid Mr. Hudgins.


                                                         13
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM               Document 1          Filed 01/07/26        Page 14 of 36




     60. Defendant Murphy also spoke to the Inquirer, repeating her false accusations against

Chief Hudgins of “ inappropriate comments and touching”.

     61. Defendant Murphy also falsely told the Inquirer “she was targeted in the overtime

probe in retaliation for her complaints against Hudgins.”5 She also falsely said that “her six-

figure overtime haul was a result of accepting every extra shift available on her off-hours”.

     62. Defendant Michael Bresnan, President of IAFF Local 22, also spoke to the Philadelphia

Inquirer in a false or false impression manner saying that “he’d heard of as many as a dozen

workers with complaints against Hudgins”.

     63.   Defendant Bresnan’s comments to the Inquirer about such dozen complaints, being

cited in an article about sexual harassment claims against Chief Hudgins, gave a false impression

that Chief Hudgins was a serial sexual harasser.

     64. Being perceived as a serial sexual harasser would be highly offensive to a reasonable

person.

     65. Chief Hudgins reiterated his concerns to the Inquirer that he was being retaliated

against for uncovering overtime fraud at the PFD. The City was aware of these statements yet

still refused to investigate Chief Hudgins complaints against the women.

     66. Shortly after the Inquirer article, HR Director Ray called Chief Hudgins and told him

that he was being placed on forced leave, and to stop his remote work.

    Around May 17, 2025, Defendant Murphy takes a vacation on a Norwegian Cruise and
                 continues to fraudulently bill overtime while on the boat

     67. Defendant Murphy’s fraud continued even after the overtime scandal was published by

the Inquirer. Around May 17, 2025, Defendant Murphy was on a Norwegian Cruise for vacation



5
 The OIG confirmed in its investigation report that the overtime probe happened before Defendant Murphy’s
complaints of sexual harassment against Mr. Hudgins.


                                                        14
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1       Filed 01/07/26     Page 15 of 36




and continued to fraudulently bill overtime. She also stated that she was going to get more

women to testify against Chief Hudgins to further her unlawful acts.

  The City Spends about $30,000 To Investigate The Sexual Harassment Claims Against
                 Chief Hudgins; Report is Produced Around July 2025

   68. The City spent about $30,000 in public funds to hire the law firm Campbell Durrant

P.C. to investigate the sexual harassment claims by Defendants Murphy, Farris and other female

employees.

   69. On or around February 2025, Attorneys Tiffany Allen, Esq. and Benjamin Patchen,

Esq. at Campbell Durrant P.C interviewed Chief Hudgins, on behalf of the City. The interview

was recorded.

   70. During the interview, Chief Hudgins remained truthful and denied all harassment

accusations made against him.

   71. Chief Hudgins told the attorneys during the interview that the allegations made by the

women were retaliatory. He cited the fraud investigation led by the City’s Inspector General

Alex DeSantis, involving Defendants Murphy and Farris. Chief Hudgins told the attorneys to

speak with Inspector General DeSantis. The attorneys confirmed that they knew Mr. DeSantis.

Chief Hudgins also provided the names of two employees that were solicited by Defendant

Murphy to join her manufactured sexual harassment claims against him.

   72. The attorneys did not respond to Chief Hudgins complaints that he was being retaliated

against by the women.

   73. Upon information and belief, the attorneys did not contact Attorney General DeSantis

regarding Chief Hudgins’s claims of retaliation. Also, upon information and belief they did not

follow up with or interview the two witnesses Chief Hudgins identified.




                                                 15
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 16 of 36




   74. The City’s investigation into the allegations against Chief Hudgins was discriminatory

from its inception. This is shown when the women complained about Chief Hudgins, the City

prioritized their complaint and proceeded with an investigation. Whereas, when the male Chief

Hudgins complained about the women, the City did not prioritize his complaint and did not

proceed with any investigation into his complaint.

   75. In or around July 2025, Campbell Durrant P.C’s attorneys finalized its investigation

report regarding the sexual harassment claims against Chief Hudgins. The City’s Employee and

Labor Relations Administrator Elizabeth Martin sent an official letter to the Fire Commissioner,

attaching the investigation report. The letter said that, “[t]he investigation concluded the

Respondent [Hudgins] engaged in physical conduct by hugging individuals in the workplace,

which was found offensive or unwelcome.” The report also said, “[t]he investigation did not

substantiate the claim that the Respondent engaged in offensive or prohibited verbal conduct.”

   76. Shortly after, in or around July 2025, Fire Commissioner Thompson called Chief

Hudgins on the phone and said something positive like, “Good news! You’re coming back to

work. You were just being you.” Chief Hudgins asked Fire Commissioner Thompson to flip to

the last page of the internal sexual harassment investigation report and specifically tell him what

the report recommended. Fire Commissioner Thompson responded, “they recommended you

return to work.”

   77. On the call, Fire Commissioner Thompson did not discipline, reprimand, or tell Chief

Hudgins that the conclusion of the report was that he “hugged” other people.

   78. For about three months following the call with Fire Commissioner Thompson, the City,

PFD and Fire Commissioner Thompson did not contact Chief Hudgins. They did not contact him

regarding any violations of the City’s Sexual Harassment Prevention Policy nor did they provide



                                                  16
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1        Filed 01/07/26     Page 17 of 36




any discipline warnings. Instead, Chief Hudgins continued to be on forced leave awaiting his

return date as 1st Deputy Commissioner.

    79. In or around August 2025, a vacancy for Assistant Chief was posted. Mr. Hudgins was

neither notified of the opening nor granted access to the application materials, because he did not

have access to his work email. When he contacted HR Director Ray to inquire about the position,

he was informed that the application period had already closed. Through this isolation, the City

denied Mr. Hudgins a legitimate career advancement opportunity.

 On September 9, 2025, the OIG Produced a Report to the City and PFD concluding that
 Defendant Murphy significantly defrauded the City with unapproved overtime, with help
                                from Defendant Farris

    80. On September 9, 2025, the City’s OIG provided a detailed report to the City, the PFD,

and Fire Commissioner Thompson that concluded Defendants Murphy and Farris worked

together to defraud the City of Philadelphia with a significant amount of unearned compensation

and other benefits. In summary, the report stated that Defendant Murphy received approximately

$         of unjust overtime during a two-year period, and that Defendant Murphy consistently

paid Defendant Farris about $     via CashApp on a biweekly basis for at least six (6) months in

2024, likely to supply Defendant Farris with her share of the unearned money from their

overtime scam. The report also stated that Defendant Farris manipulated Defendant Murphy’s

federal tax withholding status to exempt, which dramatically increased Defendant Murphy’s

take-home pay.

    81. The report also stated that Chief Hudgins initially identified Defendant Murphy and

Farris’s illegal wrongdoing, and that the matter was referred to the Office of Inspector General

(OIG) for additional investigation around January 2025.




                                                 17
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM            Document 1       Filed 01/07/26      Page 18 of 36




   82. The report also stated that the employment discrimination complaint against Chief

Hudgins filed by IAFF Local 22 was in November 2024, after Chief Hudgins began his overtime

review, and thus his overtime review preceded any complaint of discrimination.

   83. On or around early September 2025, as a result of Defendants Murphy’s and Farris’s

fraudulent activity, the City implemented a new overtime review tool to allow department heads

to monitor and review overtime trends in real time for employees who had overtime that

exceeded 25% of their base salary.

   84. The report’s findings and the City’s implementation of new overtime tracking tools

confirm that Chief Hudgins’s report of wrongdoing was reasonable and in good faith.

   85. Upon information and belief, shortly after the OIG produced the report, a meeting was

held with Fire Commissioner Thompson, the Mayor’s Chief of Staff Tiffany Thurman, and other

City leadership to discuss how to move forward with Chief Hudgins’s employment.

   86. Upon information and belief, Ms. Thurman, acting from a direct order of Mayor

Cherelle Parker, demanded that Chief Hudgins be terminated. Others in the meeting spoke out

against her demands, saying that Chief Hudgins did nothing wrong and should not be disciplined.

Despite the opposition, the City, Mayor Cherelle Parker, and Ms. Thurman expressed their intent

to discipline Chief Hudgins. During or near after the meeting, they finalized its decision to

demote Chief Hudgins.

On September 15, 2025, the City begins preparing for Chief Hudgins’s replacement, while
      keeping him on forced leave with no information regarding his return date

   87. On September 15, 2025, about one week after the OIG report, Fire Commissioner

Thompson released a General Memorandum to Officers and Members of the PFD, stating that

Deputy Chief of Logistics Carl W. Randolph Sr. (Car 3), was appointed as Acting 1st Deputy

Commissioner (Car 2), which was Chief Hudgins’s position.


                                                  18
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 19 of 36




   88. On September 17, 2025, Fire Commissioner Thompson sent out another General

Memorandum to Officers and Members of the PFD, stating that the PFD had a vacancy of 1st

Deputy Commissioner, which was Chief Hudgins’s position.

   89. At the time both memorandums were released, the City did not notify Chief Hudgins

that he was no longer in the role of 1st Deputy Commissioner. Chief Hudgins was still on forced

leave and did not have access to the released memorandum. Chief Hudgins believed he was

returning to work in his role of 1st Deputy Commissioner, as stated by Fire Commissioner

Thompson on their earlier phone call around July 2025.

On October 9, 2025, the City demotes Mr. Hudgins and cuts his salary by about $75,000 for
                     allegedly violating the sexual harassment policy

   90. In or around early October, the City, PFD, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Tiffany Thurman,

and Fire Commissioner Thompson bypassed standard HR protocols to quickly demote Mr.

Hudgins. Upon information and belief, the City and Mayor Cherelle Parker’s legal team drafted

the demotion letter and gave the draft to Fire Commissioner Thompson. Fire Commissioner

Thompson gave the demotion letter to HR Director Ray to send to Chief Hudgins.

   91. HR Director Ray spoke to Fire Commissioner Thompson, questioning the basis for Mr.

Hudgins’s demotion. In response, Fire Commissioner Thompson ordered her to just do what was

being told, to copy/paste the provided text into a letter, and to send the letter to Mr. Hudgins.

   92. On or about October 9, 2025, HR Director Ray called Mr. Hudgins on the phone and

told him that “a demotion was coming”. She explained that the demotion was backdated to the

end of September 2025, and asked him to designate leave time from September until October.

Mr. Hudgins declined to use his leave, stating that he had not been notified of any change in

status until now.




                                                  19
        Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM          Document 1      Filed 01/07/26      Page 20 of 36




   93. On the same call, HR Director Ray told Mr. Hudgins that the demotion was due to a

violation of the sexual harassment policy. Mr. Hudgins asked her which part of the sexual

harassment policy he specifically violated, such as a section or page. In response, Director Ray

admitted she did not have that information and responded something like “I don’t know, this is

all they gave me, it came straight from Fire Commissioner Thompson. I was told to give it to

you.”

   94. On the same call, Mr. Hudgins told HR Director Ray that he was being retaliated

against by the women and now the City and PFD, for uncovering the overtime fraud. HR

Director Ray agreed on the call that he was being retaliated against and said that she was not

involved in the law firm’s investigation so she could not do anything about it.

   95. After the call, HR Director Ray did not follow up with or look into Mr. Hudgins’s

legitimate complaints of retaliation.

   96. Shortly after the call, on or about October 9, 2025, Mr. Hudgins received the official

demotion letter, via email and certified mail. The letter was dated October 9, 2025 and stated:

               Dear Anthony Hudgins:

               Due to the serious nature of the multiple complaints that were filed
               against you, an investigation was conducted. The investigation
               concluded with a determination being made by the Employee
               Relations Unit (ERU) of the Department of Labor that a violation of
               the City of Philadelphia Sexual Harassment Prevention Policy did
               occur.

               As a result, your exempt status has been revoked, and you are being
               demoted to your civil service rank of Fire Deputy Chief with the
               City of Philadelphia Fire Department. The effective date of this
               appointment is 9/29/2025. Your salary will be Pay Range 309, Step
               4= $155,106.50.

               You are being reassigned as indicated below:

               WORK REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS


                                                 20
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM               Document 1         Filed 01/07/26         Page 21 of 36




                 Date: Immediately
                 Location: Incident Safety Office, Park Ave & Cambria Street
                 Platoon: “D”

    97. The City, PFD, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Ms. Thurman, Fire Commissioner Thompson,

and Chief Human Resources Candi Jones placed Mr. Hudgins in an isolated, non-supervisory

office in North Philadelphia with no direct reports, and cut his salary by $ 74,893.50 per year,

backdated his demotion by 10 calendar days from when he was notified. 6

    98. The City, PFD, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Ms. Thurman, and Fire Commissioner

Thompson and Chief Human Resources Candi Jones demoted Mr. Hudgins with knowledge that

the allegations against him lacked credibility.

    99. The City, PFD, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Ms. Thurman, and Fire Commissioner

Thompson and Chief Human Resources Candi Jones did not follow the recommendation in the

internal sexual harassment investigation report.

    100. The City and PFD did not provide Mr. Hudgins the findings of the sexual harassment

investigation against him, other than stating that he violated the policy.

    101. The City and PFD did not tell Mr. Hudgins his “hugging” was improper. They did not

give Mr. Hudgins any warnings or verbal reprimands regarding his ”hugging”. They did not

provide Mr. Hudgins any training or counseling regarding proper versus improper ”hugging”.

    102. A near $75,000 demotion, with no prior warnings or discipline, is not proportional to an

alleged violation of “hugging”, that was “found offensive or unwelcome” by two women who

defrauded the City and obstructed the overtime investigation.

    103. The City and PFD’s disciplinary process was done in bad faith, against the weight of

the City’s own internal evidence.


6
 Mr. Hudgins’s role as 1st Deputy Commissioner was located at the PFD’s Headquarters at 240 Spring Garden St,
Philadelphia, PA 19123


                                                       21
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM              Document 1         Filed 01/07/26        Page 22 of 36




    104. The alleged policy violation served as pretext to justify the City and PFD’s retaliatory

decision. The actual reason they demoted Mr. Hudgins was because he was a whistleblower.

    105. The City, PFD, and its leadership did not protect him from the malicious, harassing,

and retaliatory acts of Defendants Murphy, Farris, Quinones, Boyle, and Jackson.

On December 10, 2025, the Philadelphia Inquirer publishes an article about Mr. Hudgins’s
demotion, with the City confirming his demotion, yet staying silent on Defendant Murphy’s
                         fraudulent activities and her termination

    106. On December 10, 2025, the Philadelphia Inquirer published an article titled, “A top-

ranking fire department official was demoted amid a sexual harassment probe. The city refuses

to discuss the case.”7

    107. In the article, a spokesperson for the City and the PFD confirmed Mr. Hudgins’s

demotion in response to the Inquirer’s inquiry about the results of the sexual harassment

investigation against Mr. Hudgins, but refused to disclose that Defendant Murphy had been

terminated for her fraudulent activities.

    108. The City and PFD afforded Defendant Murphy, a female, confidentiality regarding her

employment status while publicly revealing Mr. Hudgins employment status, a male.

    109. The City and PFD curated a one-sided, prejudicial narrative that shielded a female

wrongdoer Murphy and exposed a male whistleblower Mr. Hudgins to public scorn.

    110. City Solicitor Renee Garcia, speaking for Mayor Cherelle Parker, claimed the City

takes fraud and harassment “very seriously,” yet the City did not investigation Murphy and

Farris’ harassing and retaliatory conduct against Mr. Hudgins.

    111. Defendants’ actions have resulted in the false branding of Mr. Hudgins as a sexual

harasser among his peers, the firefighting community, and the public at large. This


7
 See https://www.inquirer.com/news/philadelphia/fire-department-sexual-harassment-anthony-hudgins-
20251210.html


                                                      22
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM            Document 1       Filed 01/07/26      Page 23 of 36




characterization has caused Mr. Hudgins profound embarrassment and humiliation, leading to

severe emotional distress, professional isolation, and demotion. The damage to his reputation has

effectively foreclosed any future opportunities for leadership within the fire service.


                                             COUNT I

                RETALIATION IN VIOLATION OF PUBLIC POLICY OF
                    PENNSYLVANIA WHISTLEBLOWER LAW

                         (Against Defendants City of Philadelphia,
         Philadelphia Fire Department, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Tiffany Thurman,
                        and Fire Commissioner Jeffrey Thompson)

   112. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   113. Plaintiff timely brings this “Civil Action” within “180 days” after the occurrence of his

retaliatory demotion pursuant to 43 P.S. § 1424.

   114. Plaintiff made several “good faith reports[s] of “wrongdoing or waste” as defined under

the Pennsylvania Whistleblower Act (“PWA”) to his “employer” or a “public body”. See 43 P.S.

§ 1442. These reports included, but were not limited to: reporting substantial overtime fraud

involving Murphy and Farris to Defendants.

   115. Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff via demotion for making “good faith reports” to

his employer of “wrongdoing or waste” under the PWA in violation of 43 P.S. §1423.

   116. A direct causal connection exists between Plaintiff’s protected reports and the adverse

employment action.

   117. Defendants used a pretextual reason to demote him for being a whistleblower.

   118. As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants' retaliation, Plaintiff has suffered

damages as set forth herein.




                                                   23
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1        Filed 01/07/26     Page 24 of 36




   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                            COUNT II

                PROCEDURAL DUE PROCESS VIOLATION UNDER THE
                   STIGMA PLUS DOCTRINE – 14th AMENDMENT
                       (BY AND THROUGH 42 U.S.C. § 1983)

                         (Against Defendants City of Philadelphia,
         Philadelphia Fire Department, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Tiffany Thurman,
                        and Fire Commissioner Jeffrey Thompson)

   119. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   120. Under the “stigma plus” test, the creation and dissemination of a false and defamatory

impression is “stigma” element. Hill v. Borough of Kutztown, 455 F.3d 225, 236-38 (3d

Cir.2006). A demotion, meaning a change in duties with a pay reduction can be the “plus”

element. Id. When such a deprivation occurs, the employee is entitled to a name-clearing

hearing. To satisfy the stigma prong of the test, the employee must show: 1) publication of 2) a

substantially and materially false statement that 3) infringed upon the reputation, honor, or

integrity of the employee. Id.

   121. Defendants demoted Plaintiff.

   122. Murphy and Farris made false statements while at work and to the Philadelphia

Inquirer that Hudgins sexually harassed them. Defendants effectively adopted, ratified, and

publicized such statements through their actions of prioritizing the women’s bad-faith complaints

while refusing to investigate Plaintiff’s complaints.

   123. Defendants created a stigmatizing public record against Mr. Hudgins by concluding and

disseminating to others that he violated the City’s Sexual Harassment Prevention Policy, which

is a substantially and materially false statement.



                                                     24
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1       Filed 01/07/26       Page 25 of 36




   124. Defendants publicly confirmed to the Philadelphia Inquirer in December 2025 that

Chief Hudgins was demoted due to the sexual harassment investigation, which is a substantially

and materially false statement.

   125. Defendants’ statements infringed upon Plaintiff’s reputation, honor, and integrity.

   126. Defendants failed to provide Plaintiff with a meaningful name-clearing hearing or any

opportunity to challenge the stigmatizing label before or after his demotion was applied.

   127. Defendants back-dated Plaintiff’s demotion by 10 days prior to notice.

   128. Defendants’ conduct has foreclosed or otherwise inhibited Plaintiffs’ freedom to take

advantage of other leadership opportunities in the fire service profession.

   129. As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants' due process violation, Plaintiff has

suffered damages as set forth herein.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                            COUNT III

                     SEX DISCRIMINATION IN VIOLATION OF
            TITLE VII OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964, AS AMENDED

              (Against City of Philadelphia and Philadelphia Fire Department)

   130. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   131. Plaintiff is a member of protected classes in that he is a male.

   132. Plaintiff is qualified for his position.

   133. Similarly situated persons outside of Plaintiff’s protected classes were treated more

favorably than Plaintiff.

   134. Defendants treated women more favorably than men.




                                                   25
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM               Document 1   Filed 01/07/26      Page 26 of 36




   135. Circumstances exist related to the above-cited employment actions that give rise to an

inference of discrimination.

   136. No legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons exist for the above cited adverse

employment actions that Plaintiff suffered.

   137. The reasons cited by Defendants for the adverse employment actions that Plaintiff

suffered are pretext for discrimination.

   138. Defendants demoted Plaintiff.

   139. As a result of Defendants’ unlawful gender discrimination, Plaintiff has suffered

damages as set forth herein.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                             COUNT IV

                HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT IN VIOLATION OF
            TITLE VII OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964, AS AMENDED

              (Against City of Philadelphia and Philadelphia Fire Department)

   140. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   141. Taken together, the acts above constitute a hostile work environment based on sex.

         a. Plaintiff suffered intentional discrimination because of his membership in a

             protected class – male.

         b. Such discrimination was severe or pervasive.

         c. Such discrimination detrimentally affected Plaintiff.

         d. Such discrimination would have detrimentally affected a reasonable male in

             Plaintiff’s position.




                                                  26
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1       Filed 01/07/26      Page 27 of 36




    142. The unlawful employment practices outlined above were intentional or were of a nature

so as to make subjection to the hostile environment a condition of employment.

    143. Plaintiff suffered tangible adverse employment actions as alleged herein.

    144. Defendants knew or reasonably should have known of the women’s harassment

towards Plaintiff.

    145. Defendants failed to exercise reasonable care to prevent and promptly correct the

harassing behavior.

    146. As a result of Defendants’ conduct as aforementioned, Plaintiff has suffered damages as

set forth herein.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                            COUNT V

                         RETALIATION IN VIOLATION OF
            TITLE VII OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964, AS AMENDED

               (Against City of Philadelphia and Philadelphia Fire Department)

    147. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

    148. Plaintiff engaged in protected activity when Plaintiff complained to Defendant when he

reported what he reasonably believed to be a hostile work environment and discriminatory

retaliation based on his sex.

    149. Defendants City and PFD had actual and constructive knowledge of Plaintiff’s

protected activity through reports made to Fire Commissioner Thompson, the City’s appointed

investigators, and the PFD’s Human Resources.

    150. Thereafter, Defendants took adverse employment actions against Plaintiff, including,

but not limited to demotion.


                                                  27
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM            Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 28 of 36




   151. There exists a causal connection between Plaintiff’s participation in the protected

activity and the adverse employment action.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                            COUNT VI

        SEX DISCRIMINATION IN VIOLATION OF THE 14th AMENDEMENT
                     (BY AND THROUGH 42 U.S.C. § 1983)

                         (Against Defendants City of Philadelphia,
         Philadelphia Fire Department, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Tiffany Thurman,
                        and Fire Commissioner Jeffrey Thompson)

   152. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   153. An employee is protected from discrimination under the 14th Amendment of the United

States Constitution relating to Equal Protection.

   154. Plaintiff re-alleges and re-asserts all prior allegations as set forth previously in the

Complaint as Defendants’ actions also constitute unlawful discrimination under the 14th

Amendment, pursued herein under § 1983.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                           COUNT VII

  HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT IN VIOLATION OF THE 14th AMENDEMENT
                 (BY AND THROUGH 42 U.S.C. § 1983)

                         (Against Defendants City of Philadelphia,
         Philadelphia Fire Department, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Tiffany Thurman,
                        and Fire Commissioner Jeffrey Thompson)

   155. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.




                                                    28
      Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM            Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 29 of 36




   156. An employee is protected from a hostile work environment under the 14th Amendment

of the United States Constitution relating to Equal Protection.

   157. Plaintiff re-alleges and re-asserts all prior allegations as set forth previously in the

Complaint as Defendants’ actions also constitute unlawful hostile work environment under the

14th Amendment, pursued herein under § 1983.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                           COUNT VIII

             RETALIATION IN VIOLATION OF THE 14th AMENDEMENT
                      (BY AND THROUGH 42 U.S.C. § 1983)

                         (Against Defendants City of Philadelphia,
         Philadelphia Fire Department, Mayor Cherelle Parker, Tiffany Thurman,
                        and Fire Commissioner Jeffrey Thompson)

   158. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   159. An employee is protected from retaliation under the 14th Amendment of the United

States Constitution for expressing concerns of Equal Protection.

   160. Plaintiff re-alleges and re-asserts all prior allegations as set forth previously in the

Complaint as Defendants’ actions also constitute unlawful retaliation under the 14th Amendment,

pursued herein under § 1983.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                            COUNT IX

                           DEFAMATION - PRIVATE INDIVIDUAL

                          (Against Jacqulyn Murphy, Marian Farris,
                    Michael Bresnan, and IAFF Local 22 via vicarious liability)



                                                  29
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 30 of 36




    161. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

    162. Defendants published false statements to the Philadelphia Inquirer on May 6, 2025. The

statements made by Defendants falsely accused Plaintiff of sexual harassment and professional

misconduct.

    163. Defendant Bresnan was acting both in his individual capacity and on behalf of

Defendant IAFF Local 22 when he made statements to the Inquirer about Plaintiff.

    164. Defendant IAFF Local 22 is vicariously liable for the defamatory statements made by

Defendant Bresnan in his capacity as Union President.

    165. The statements specifically named and identified Mr. Hudgins.

    166. Defendants’ statements were made with actual knowledge or a reckless disregard for

the truth.

    167. Average readers of the Philadelphia Inquirer and PFD employees understood the

statements to mean Plaintiff was a sexual predator, a serial sexual harasser, or unfit for

leadership.

    168. Defendant Murphy and Farris abused any perceived privilege by submitting sexual

harassment claims in bad faith, with actual malice, and with knowledge such claims were false.

    169. The statements falsely impute criminal behavior and professional unfitness to Plaintiff,

and thereby constitute defamation per se, and damages are presumed as a matter of law.

    170. As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants' false statements, Plaintiff has

suffered damages herein.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.




                                                  30
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM            Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 31 of 36




                                             COUNT X

                     DEFAMATION - PUBLIC FIGURE (in the alternative)

                          (Against Jacqulyn Murphy, Marian Farris,
                    Michael Bresnan, and IAFF Local 22 via vicarious liability)

    171. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

    172. To the extent the Court finds Plaintiff to be a public official or public figure, he brings

this claim in the alternative.

    173. Defendants acted with actual malice when making the false statements.

    174. Plaintiff re-alleges and re-asserts all prior allegations as set forth previously in the

Complaint as Defendants’ actions also constitute defamation of a public figure or official.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                             COUNT XI

              FALSE LIGHT INVASION OF PRIVACY - PRIVATE FIGURE

                          (Against Jacqulyn Murphy, Marian Farris,
                    Michael Bresnan, and IAFF Local 22 via vicarious liability)

    175. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

    176. False light invasion of privacy offers redress not merely for the publication of matters

that are provably false, but also for those that, although true, are selectively publicized in a

manner creating a false impression. Rubin v. CBS Broad. Inc., 170 A.3d 560 (Pa. Super. 2017).

    177. Defendants published highly sensitive and false accusations to the Philadelphia Inquirer

on May 6, 2025, which reached a broad audience of the general public and City employees.

    178. Defendants selectively publicized information in a manner creating a false impression.




                                                   31
         Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM         Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 32 of 36




    179. Defendants’ publications falsely portrayed Plaintiff as a sexual predator, a criminal, and

a supervisor who abused his power to harass subordinates.

    180. A reasonable person would find being publicly labeled as a serial sexual harasser who

engaged in professional misconduct to be highly offensive to their reputation.

    181. Defendants acted with knowledge or with reckless disregard for the false impression of

these claims and the false light that Plaintiff would be placed under.

    182. Defendant Murphy and Farris abused any perceived privilege by submitting sexual

harassment claims in bad faith, with actual malice, and with the knowledge that such claims were

false.

    183. Defendant IAFF Local 22 is vicariously liable for the actions and statements of

Defendant Bresnan, who acted on behalf of the Union when publicizing these statements.

    184. As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants' highly offensive statements false

light, Plaintiff has suffered damages herein.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                            COUNT XII

     FALSE LIGHT INVASION OF PRIVACY– PUBLIC FIGURE (in the alternative)

                          (Against Jacqulyn Murphy, Marian Farris,
                    Michael Bresnan, and IAFF Local 22 via vicarious liability)

    185. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

    186. To the extent the Court finds Plaintiff to be a public official or public figure, he brings

this claim in the alternative.

    187. Defendants acted with actual malice with making the false statements.




                                                   32
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 33 of 36




   188. Plaintiff re-alleges and re-asserts all prior allegations as set forth previously in the

Complaint as Defendants’ actions also constitute false light of a public figure or official.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                           COUNT XIII

                                 TORTIOUS INTERFERENCE

                 (Against Jacquelyn Murphy, Marian Farris, Tabitha Boyle,
                           Christina Quinones, and Dana Jackson)

   189. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   190. Plaintiff maintained a valid contractual relationship with his employers, the City of

Philadelphia and the Philadelphia Fire Department, serving as 1st Deputy Commissioner.

   191. Defendants Murphy, Farris, Quinones, Boyle and Jackson acted in concert to

purposefully interfere with the aforementioned relationship, with intent to harm Plaintiff.

   192. Defendants' actions were not privileged and lacked any legal justification.

   193. Defendants abused any perceived privilege by submitting sexual harassment claims in

bad faith, with actual malice, and with the knowledge that such claims were false.

   194. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants actions, Plaintiff was demoted and has

suffered damages herein.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                           COUNT XIV

                                     CIVIL CONSPIRACY

                 (Against Jacquelyn Murphy, Marian Farris, Tabitha Boyle,
                             Christina Quinones, Dana Jackson)



                                                  33
       Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM            Document 1      Filed 01/07/26     Page 34 of 36




   195. Plaintiff incorporates preceding paragraphs as if set forth more fully at length herein.

   196. Defendants combined or agreed intending to commit an unlawful act or to do a lawful

act by unlawful means or unlawful purpose, including tortiously interfering with Plaintiff’s

employment, obstructing an internal investigation into overtime fraud, and retaliating against

Plaintiff for uncovering the fraud.

   197. Defendants Boyle, Quinones, and Jackson were aware of and complicit in Defendants

Murphy and Farris’ fraudulent overtime activities.

   198. Defendants committed several overt acts to achieve their common goal, including filing

false claims made in bad faith that Plaintiff was a sexual harasser; recruiting other employees to

join the bad-faith complaint against Plaintiff; cold-calling employees to join in on the complaint;

and publishing false statements in the Philadelphia Inquirer.

   199. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiff was demoted and has

suffered damages herein.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff seeks the damages set forth in the Prayer for Relief clause of this

Complaint, infra.

                                      PRAYER FOR RELIEF

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Anthony Hudgins, requests that the Court grant him the following

relief against all Defendants:

    a) Compensatory damages, including payment for lost wages and benefits, both to date and

        prospectively into the future;

    b) Damages for emotional pain and suffering, humiliation, professional embarrassment,

        mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, and injury to Plaintiff’s professional

        reputation;



                                                 34
  Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM           Document 1        Filed 01/07/26      Page 35 of 36




c) Liquidated damages as provided for under the Pennsylvania Whistleblower Law, 43 P.S.

   § 1425, and other applicable statutes;

d) Punitive damages against individual defendants Parker, Thurman, Thompson, Bresnan,

   Murphy, Farris, Boyle, Quinones, and Jackson where permitted by statute or law for

   their malicious, willful, or reckless disregard of Plaintiff’s federal and state protected

   rights;

e) Punitive damages against Defendants the City, PFD, and IAFF Local 22 where

   permitted by statute or law for their malicious, willful, or reckless disregard of

   Plaintiff’s federal and state protected rights;

f) Order directing Defendants the City and PFD to immediately reinstate Plaintiff to his

   position as 1st Deputy Commissioner (Car 2) with full seniority and status restored;

g) Order requiring Defendants the City and PFD’s permanent removal and expungement of

   all negative, discriminatory, and defamatory documents from Plaintiff’s personnel files,

   including all records related to Plaintiff’s demotion;

h) Reasonable attorneys’ fees;

i) Recoverable costs;

j) Pre- and post- judgment interest;

k) Nominal damages;

l) An allowance to compensate for any negative tax consequences from a lump sum award;

m) Awarding such other relief as appears reasonable and just under the circumstances.

n) Such other and further relief as the Court determines to be just and proper.




                                              35
     Case 2:26-cv-00092-KSM          Document 1        Filed 01/07/26     Page 36 of 36




                                 JURY TRIAL DEMAND

     Demand is hereby made for a trial by jury as to all issues.

                                                    Respectfully submitted,

Date: January 7, 2026                               MY WORK ATTORNEY, LLC
                                                    By: /s/ Amanda N. Martinez
                                                    Amanda N. Martinez, Esq. (338141)
                                                    1315 Walnut St Ste 801
                                                    Philadelphia, PA 19107
                                                    215-445-1482
                                                    amanda@myworkattorney.com
                                                    Attorney for Plaintiff Anthony Hudgins




                                               36
