Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/71936317/1/munson-v-main-line-realty-corporation/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in MUNSON v. MAIN LINE REALTY CORPORATION (E.D. Pa., 2:25-cv-06544) – CourtListener.com

             Case 2:25-cv-06544       Document 1      Filed 11/19/25     Page 1 of 14




DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
CATHERINE W. LOWRY, ESQUIRE
Attorney ID No. 316291
1628 Pine Street
Philadelphia, PA 19103
(267) 857-0832
catherine@dereksmithlaw.com
Attorneys for Tomina Munson

                      IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


 TOMINA MUNSON,

                         Plaintiff,
                                                  Civil Action No.
        v.
                                                  PLAINTIFF DEMANDS
 MAIN LINE REALTY CORPORATION,
                                                  A TRIAL BY JURY
 MAIN LINE REALTY CORPORATION
 d/b/a MAIN LINE HEALTH CENTER,
 MAIN LINE REALTY CORPORATION
 d/b/a THE BRYN MAWR HOSPITAL, and
 COY BOYKIN

                          Defendants.


                                         COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Tomina Munson, by and through her attorneys, Derek Smith Law Group,

PLLC, by way of this Complaint, state:

                                  NATURE OF THE ACTION

1. Plaintiff complains pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as codified, 42

   U.S.C. §§ 2000e to 2000e-17 (amended in 1972, 1978 and by the Civil Rights Act of 1991,

   Pub. L. No. 102-166 (“Title VII”)) and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, as amended,

   43 P.S. §§ 951, et seq. (“PHRA”).
          Case 2:25-cv-06544         Document 1       Filed 11/19/25      Page 2 of 14




2. Plaintiff seeks damages to redress the injuries she suffered as a result of the Defendants’

   actions.

                                            PARTIES

3. Plaintiff Tomina Munson (hereinafter referred to as “Plaintiff”) is an individual resident of

   the County of Philadelphia within the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

4. At all times material, Defendant Main Line Realty Corporation (hereinafter referred to as

   “Defendant MLR”) was and still is a domestic nonprofit corporation incorporated in the

   Commonwealth of Pennsylvania whose registered office address is 130 S. Bryn Mawr Ave,

   Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania 19010.

5. At all times material, Defendant MLR was doing business as Main Line Health Center and as

   The Bryn Mawr Hospital (hereinafter “Defendant BMH”) both of whose registered offices

   have an address of 130 S. Bryn Mawr Ave, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania 19010.

6. Defendant Coy Boykin (hereinafter referred to as “Defendant Boykin”) was and, upon

   information and belief, still is a Manager at Defendant BMH.

7. At all times material, Defendant Boykin held supervisory authority over Plaintiff.

8. At all times material, Defendants were the joint employers of Plaintiff.



                      EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

9. Around December 20, 2023, Plaintiff timely filed a Charge of Discrimination with the U.S.

   Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the Pennsylvania Human

   Relations Commission (“PHRC”) alleging violations of Title VII and the PHRA.

10. Around January 19, 2024, Plaintiff received a letter from the PHRC indicating that her matter

   was transferred from the EEOC to the PHRC for investigation.



                                                 2
          Case 2:25-cv-06544         Document 1        Filed 11/19/25      Page 3 of 14




11. Around July 9, 2025, Plaintiff received a letter from the PHRC which indicated they were

   closing the case.

12. Around August 22, 2025, the EEOC issued Plaintiff a “Notice of Right to Sue.”

13. This action is being commenced within ninety (90) days of Plaintiff’s receiving the Notice of

   Right to Sue.

14. Plaintiff has complied with all administrative prerequisites to bring this lawsuit.

15. Plaintiff’s PHRA claims are ripe because more than one year has elapsed since PHRC

   assumed jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s Charge.



                                   JURISDICTION AND VENUE

16. This Court has jurisdiction over this lawsuit pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331 because it involves

   questions under federal law under Title VII and the PHRA.

17. This Court has supplemental jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. §1367.

18. This Court also has subject matter jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1343, which gives

   district courts original jurisdiction over (a) any civil action authorized by law to be brought

   by any person to redress the deprivation, under color of any State Law, statute, ordinance,

   regulation, custom or usage, of any right, privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution

   of the United States or by any Act of Congress providing for equal rights of citizens or of all

   persons within the jurisdiction of the United States; and (b) any civil action to recover

   damages or to secure equitable relief under any Act of Congress providing for the protection

   of the civil rights.

19. Venue in this judicial district is proper pursuant to 28 U.S.C §1391(b) and 42 U.S.C. §2000e-

   5(f)(3) because a substantial part of the acts or omissions giving rise to Plaintiff’s claims



                                                  3
           Case 2:25-cv-06544           Document 1       Filed 11/19/25      Page 4 of 14




    occurred in Montgomery County Pennsylvania within the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,

    and Defendants are subjected to personal jurisdiction here.



                                          MATERIAL FACTS


20. Around September 20, 2023, Plaintiff began working at Aramark.

21. At all times material, consistent with her Muslim religious beliefs, Plaintiff wore a Shayla.

22. A Shayla is a head covering worn by some Muslim women, including Plaintiff, in the

    presence of males outside their immediate family, due to their religious beliefs.

23. Shortly thereafter, Plaintiff was assigned to work at Defendant BMH, which is owned and

    operated by Defendant MLR.

24. Plaintiff worked in Defendant BMH’s Environmental Services department.

25. More specifically, Plaintiff was responsible for cleaning hospital rooms and nurses’ stations.

26. Around October 31, 2023, Plaintiff was cleaning the floor within Defendant BMH that she

    was assigned to for that shift.

27. Around 8 AM that day, Plaintiff overheard numerous nurses discussing her Shayla in a

    negative manner.

28. None of the nurses addressed Plaintiff.

29. Rather, they continued to discuss Plaintiff’s religious head garment stating, “we don’t wear

    that up here.”

30. Shortly thereafter, one of the nurses passed Plaintiff and stated, “oh that’s new,” when

    looking in Plaintiff’s direction.

31. Upon information and belief, the nurse made this comment about Plaintiff as there were no

    other Muslims who wore head garments, including but not limited to a Shayla.

                                                   4
           Case 2:25-cv-06544         Document 1       Filed 11/19/25       Page 5 of 14




32. Despite being distraught and emotionally upset by what had transpired, Plaintiff attempted to

   continue with her day and clean the floor she was assigned to and responsible for that shift.

33. Later that day, one of the nurses, Alicia Casey (hereinafter “Ms. Casey”) who had been

   discussing Plaintiff’s Shayla earlier that day, approached Plaintiff and informed her that there

   was a pile of dust that was behind the Nurses’ Station desk.

34. Plaintiff apologized, as she had forgotten to sweep up the pile earlier that day as a result of

   being emotionally distraught by the negative, discriminatory comments she overheard the

   nurses making about her Shayla.

35. Plaintiff immediately went and cleaned up the pile.

36. This was the extent of the exchange between Plaintiff and Ms. Casey regarding that issue and

   the only interaction that Plaintiff ever had directly with Ms. Casey.

37. Around 2 PM on that same day, Defendant Boykin approached Plaintiff in a frantic state and

   informed her that he “needed [Plaintiff] to come downstairs with [him] right [then]!”

38. Defendant Boykin’s demeanor and words caused Plaintiff concern as she was unaware of

   anything that had happened that would cause him to act in such a manner.

39. Once downstairs, Defendant Boykin informed Plaintiff that Ms. Casey had informed him that

   she didn’t “want [Plaintiff] up there,” meaning on the floor that Ms. Casey worked on.

40. Defendant Boykin further informed Plaintiff that Ms. Casey claimed that Plaintiff had argued

   with her, Ms. Casey, about cleaning up the dust pile.

41. Plaintiff informed Defendant Boykin that this was untrue and that he should review

   Defendant BMH’s video surveillance as it would show that the interaction was brief and

   there was no argument.




                                                  5
           Case 2:25-cv-06544           Document 1         Filed 11/19/25       Page 6 of 14




42. Defendant Boykin instructed Plaintiff that she was to leave for the day, as Ms. Casey did not

    want Plaintiff working on the same floor, and asked Plaintiff if she could “work with her hair

    up” and “without all the extra” and made a hand motion towards his head area.

43. Upon information and belief, Defendant Boykin was asking if Plaintiff could work without

    her Shayla.

44. Plaintiff informed Defendant Boykin that she could not work without her head garment as

    wearing it was part of her religious beliefs and practices.

45. Defendant Boykin again instructed Plaintiff to leave for the day and informed her that he

    would be in touch.

46. On November 1, 2023, Plaintiff, as she had not heard from Defendant Boykin, called

    Defendant BMH and Defendant Boykin answered the phone.

47. When Plaintiff inquired about the status of her employment, Defendant Boykin informed her

    that they “no longer needed [her] services.”

48. Defendant Boykin provided Plaintiff with no additional information about why her services

    were no longer needed.

49. Upon information and belief, Plaintiff was terminated due to her religious beliefs, including

    but not limited to her decision to wear a Shayla consistent with those beliefs.

50. Defendants’ discriminatory, derogatory, and unlawful comments caused Plaintiff to feel

    extremely humiliated, degraded, victimized, embarrassed, and emotionally distressed.

51. Plaintiff claims that Defendants unlawfully discriminated against, and terminated, Plaintiff due to

    religion and/or ethnicity.

52. As a result of the acts and conduct complained of herein, Plaintiff has suffered and will suffer

    the loss of income, bonuses, benefits and other compensation which such employment



                                                     6
           Case 2:25-cv-06544           Document 1        Filed 11/19/25        Page 7 of 14




    entails, and Plaintiff also suffered future pecuniary losses, emotional pain, humiliation,

    suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses. Plaintiff

    has further experienced severe emotional and physical distress.

53. As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff sustained serious and permanent personal

    injuries.

54. Plaintiff further claims aggravation, activation and/or exacerbation of any preexisting condition.

55. Plaintiff claims that Defendants unlawfully retaliated against and terminated Plaintiff due to her

    opposition to the unlawful conduct of Defendants.

56. The above are just some of the discrimination to which Defendants subjected Plaintiff.

57. Defendants have exhibited a pattern and practice of discrimination.

58. Plaintiff claims alternatively that Plaintiff is an Independent Contractor, and Plaintiff makes

    all applicable claims for the above conduct and facts under the applicable law pertaining to

    Independent Contractors. Furthermore, in such case, Plaintiff claims that Defendants owed

    and breached its duty to Plaintiff to prevent the harassment and discrimination, and is

    therefore liable for negligence.

59. Plaintiff claims a continuous practice of discrimination and claims a continuing violation and

    makes all claims herein under the continuing violations doctrine.


                                            COUNT I
                                       DISCRIMINATION
                                        UNDER TITLE VII
                               (against Defendants MLR and BMH)


    55. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

        this complaint.




                                                     7
       Case 2:25-cv-06544         Document 1        Filed 11/19/25     Page 8 of 14




56. This claim is instituted pursuant to the provisions of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of

   1964, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq., as amended, for relief based upon the unlawful

   employment practices of the above-named Defendant. Plaintiff complains of Defendants’

   violation of Title VII's prohibition against discrimination in employment based, in whole

   or in part, upon an employee's religion and/or ethnicity.

57. SEC. 2000e-2. [Section 703] states as follows:

       (a) Employer practices

                   It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer –

           (1) to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to

               discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms,

               conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such individual’s race,

               color, religion, sex, or national origin; or

           (2) to limit, segregate, or classify his employees or applicants for

               employment in any way which would deprive or tend to deprive any

               individual of employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his

               status as an employee, because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex,

               or national origin.

58. Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by Title VII by

   intentionally discriminating against Plaintiff with respect to her compensation, terms,

   conditions, training and privileges of employment because of her religion and ethnicity.

59. Defendants subjected Plaintiff to adverse tangible employment actions—defined as

   significant changes in Plaintiff’s employment status, discipline, denial of training, failure




                                              8
       Case 2:25-cv-06544         Document 1       Filed 11/19/25      Page 9 of 14




   to promote, reassignment with significantly different job responsibilities, and decisions

   causing significant changes in her employment benefits.

60. Plaintiff’s protected characteristics (religion and ethnicity) played a determinative factor

   in Defendants’ decisions.

61. Defendants cannot show any legitimate nondiscriminatory reasons for their employment

   practices and any reasons proffered by Defendants for their actions against Plaintiff are

   pretextual and can readily be disbelieved.

62. Alternatively, Plaintiff’s protected status played a motivating part in the Defendants’

   decisions even if other factors may also have motivated its actions against Plaintiff.

63. Defendants acted with the intent to discriminate.

64. Defendants acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

65. As a result of the Defendants’ violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages,

   including, but not limited to: past and future lost wages, pain and suffering,

   inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress,

   reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible

   and intangible.

                                         COUNT II
                             HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT
                                     UNDER TITLE VII
                            (against Defendants MLR and BMH)

66. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

   this complaint.

67. Title VII also prohibits hostile work environment harassment, defined as unwanted

   comments or conduct regarding the Plaintiff’s protected characteristics that have the



                                              9
      Case 2:25-cv-06544         Document 1       Filed 11/19/25      Page 10 of 14




   purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with the terms and conditions of the

   Plaintiff’s employment. Harris v. Forklift Systems, 510 U.S. 17, 21 (1993).

68. An employer is strictly liable for supervisor harassment that “culminates in a tangible

   employment action, such as discharge, demotion, or undesirable reassignment.”

   Burlington Industries, Inc. v. Ellerth, 524 U.S. 742 (1998).

69. Respondeat superior liability for the acts of non-supervisory employees exists where “the

   defendant knew or should have known of the harassment and failed to take prompt

   remedial action. Andrews v. City of Philadelphia, 895 F.2d 1469, 1486 (3d Cir. 1990).

70. Here, Defendants’ conduct occurred because of Plaintiff’s legally protected

   characteristics and was severe or pervasive enough to make a reasonable person of the

   same legally protected classes believe that the conditions of employment were altered,

   and that the working environment was intimidating, hostile, or abusive.

71. The discriminatory conduct directly refers to Plaintiff’s religion and ethnicity.

72. Plaintiff’s supervisors had the authority to control Plaintiff’s work environment, and they

   abused that authority and terminated Plaintiff due to her religion and/or ethnicity and/or

   because of Plaintiff’s coworkers’ issues with the same.

73. Derogatory and discriminatory conduct and comments filled the environment of

   Plaintiff’s work area.

74. Defendants knew that the derogatory and discriminatory conduct and comments filled

   Plaintiff’s work environment.

75. The derogatory and discriminatory comments and conduct caused Plaintiff to sustain

   emotional distress.




                                             10
      Case 2:25-cv-06544        Document 1        Filed 11/19/25      Page 11 of 14




76. Plaintiff subjectively regarded the derogatory and discriminatory comments and conduct

   as unwelcome, unwanted and she objectively opposed the conduct.

77. The conduct was emotionally damaging and humiliating.

78. The conduct unreasonably interfered with Plaintiff’s work performance.

79. The conduct was so extreme that it resulted in material changes to the terms and

   conditions of Plaintiff’s employment.

80. As a result of the Defendants’ violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages

   including but not limited to: past and future lost wages, pain and suffering,

   inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress,

   reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible

   and intangible.

                                       COUNT III
                                    DISCRIMINATION
                                       PHRA § 955
                           (against Defendants MLR and BMH)

81. Plaintiff hereby incorporates by reference each and every allegation made

   in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

82. The PHRA § 955 provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory

   practice:

           "(a) For any employer because of the race, color, religious creed, ancestry, age,

           sex, national origin or non-job related handicap or disability or the use of a guide

           or support animal because of the blindness, deafness or physical handicap of any

           individual or independent contractor, to refuse to hire or employ or contract with,

           or to bar or to discharge from employment such individual or independent

           contractor, or to otherwise discriminate against such individual or independent

                                            11
      Case 2:25-cv-06544         Document 1        Filed 11/19/25      Page 12 of 14




           contractor with respect to compensation, hire, tenure, terms, conditions or

           privileges of employment or contract, if the individual or independent contractor

           is the best able and most competent to perform the services required."

83. Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by the PHRA by

   intentionally discriminating against Plaintiff with respect to her compensation, terms,

   conditions, training and privileges of employment because of her religion and ethnicity.

84. Defendants subjected Plaintiff to adverse tangible employment actions—defined as

   significant changes in Plaintiff’s employment status, discipline, denial of training, failure

   to promote, reassignment with significantly different job responsibilities, and decisions

   causing significant changes in her employment benefits.

85. Plaintiff’s protected characteristics (religion and ethnicity) played a determinative factor

   in Defendants’ decisions.

86. Defendants cannot show any legitimate nondiscriminatory reasons for their employment

   practices and any reasons proffered by Defendants for their actions against Plaintiff are

   pretextual and can readily be disbelieved.

87. Alternatively, Plaintiff’s protected status played a motivating part in the Defendants’

   decisions even if other factors may also have motivated its actions against Plaintiff.

88. Defendants acted with the intent to discriminate.

89. Defendants acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

90. As a result of the Defendants’ violations of the PHRA, Plaintiff has suffered damages,

   including, but not limited to: past and future lost wages, pain and suffering,

   inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress,




                                             12
         Case 2:25-cv-06544         Document 1       Filed 11/19/25      Page 13 of 14




       reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible

       and intangible.

                                          COUNT IV
                                  AIDING AND ABETTING
                                           PHRA § 955
                                  (against Defendant Boykin)


   91. Plaintiff repeats and realleges each and every allegation made in the above paragraphs of

       this complaint.

   92. PHRA § 955(e) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: "For any

       person, employer, employment agency, labor organization or employee, to aid, abet, incite,

       compel or coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful

       discriminatory practice, or to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with the

       provisions of this act or any order issued thereunder, or to attempt, directly or indirectly,

       to commit any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice."

   93. Defendant Boykin engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of PHRA §

       955(e) by aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling and coercing the discriminatory conduct.

   94. As a result of the Defendants’ violations of the PHRA, Plaintiff has suffered damages,

       including, but not limited to: past and future lost wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience,

       mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress, reputational

       harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible and intangible.



                            DEMAND TO PRESERVE EVIDENCE

       The Defendants are hereby demanded to preserve all physical and electronic information

pertaining in any way to Plaintiff’s employment, to her claims alleged herein, her claims to


                                                13
          Case 2:25-cv-06544           Document 1         Filed 11/19/25        Page 14 of 14




damages, to any defenses to same, including, but not limited to electronic data storage,

employment files, files, memos, job descriptions, text messages, e-mails, spreadsheets, images,

cache memory, payroll records, paystubs, time records, timesheets, and any other information

and/or data which may be relevant to any claim or defense in this litigation.



                                           JURY DEMAND

       Plaintiff requests a jury trial on all issues to be tried.




                                       PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment against Defendants, jointly and severally,

in an amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, including but not limited to all

emotional distress, back pay and front pay, punitive damages, liquidated damages, statutory

damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and disbursements of action; and for such other relief as the

Court deems just and proper.

                                                     DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC

                                                      Attorneys for Plaintiff

                                                      By: /s/ Catherine W. Lowry, Esq.
                                                      Catherine W. Lowry, Esq.
                                                      1628 Pine Street
                                                      Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
                                                      catherine@dereksmithlaw.com
Dated: November 19, 2025




                                                    14
