Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/71926807/1/3/equal-employment-opportunity-commission-v-the-trustees-of-the-university/
Title: Declaration Exhibit 1 – #1, Att. #3 in EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION v. THE TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (E.D. Pa., 2:25-cv-06502) – CourtListener.com

            Case 2:25-cv-06502       Document 1-3        Filed 11/18/25      Page 1 of 7




                      THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                  FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT                )
OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION,              )
                                     )
            Petitioner,              )
                                     )
      v.                             )                Civil Action No. ________________
                                     )
THE TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY )
OF PENNSYLVANIA,                     )
                                     )
           Respondent.               )
_____________________________________)


       DECLARATION OF EEOC DEPUTY DIRECTOR KAREN McDONOUGH
I, Karen McDonough, hereby state as follows:

       1.      I am the Deputy Director of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity

               Commission’s (“EEOC’s”) Philadelphia District Office (“PDO”). In that role I am

               responsible for the operations of the office, including the investigation of potential

               discrimination alleged in or arising from charges of discrimination.

       2.      The PDO is responsible for investigating charges alleging that employers have

               engaged in employment practices made unlawful by Title VII of the Civil Rights

               Act of 1964 (“Title VII”), as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq.

       3.      Among the EEOC’s investigations pending in the PDO is the investigation arising

               from Commissioner Charge No. 530-2024-01963 (the “Charge”).

       4.      The following statements are based on my personal examination of the EEOC

               investigative file for Charge No. 530-2024-01963.

       5.      On December 8, 2023, EEOC Chair Andrea Lucas issued Charge No. 530-2024-

               01963 with the EEOC alleging that since at least from November 2022,
             Case 2:25-cv-06502          Document 1-3          Filed 11/18/25        Page 2 of 7




                 Respondent University of Pennsylvania (“Respondent”) violated Title VII by

                 “subjecting Jewish faculty (including tenured, non-tenured, and adjunct

                 professors), staff, and other employees (including, but not limited to, students

                 employed by the university) to an unlawful hostile work environment based on

                 national origin, religion, and/or race.” Attachment A is a true and correct copy of

                 the Charge. 1

        6.       Respondent is an employer and an academic institution, located in Philadelphia,

                 Pennsylvania.

        7.       On March 27, 2025, the EEOC issued a Request for Information (“RFI”) to

                 Respondent. Item 1 asked for

                         complaints by employees; including but not limited to: faculty (including,
                         but not limited to, tenured, non-tenured, and adjunct professors), staff, and
                         other employees (including, but not limited to, students employed by the
                         University), of discrimination based on Jewish religion, faith, ancestry/
                         National Origin and/or complaints of anti-Semitism from November 1,
                         2022, to the present. For each complaint, produce the following
                         information:
                                 a. First and Last name of complaining employee;
                                 b. Position title of complaining employee;
                                 c. Dates of employment of complaining employee;
                                 d. The complaint;
                                 e. The method of complaint (ie hotline, email, in-person, etc.);
                                 f. Identify Respondent Official(s) by name (first and last) and
                                 position title who had a role in the investigation, disposition or
                                 outcome of the complaint;
                                 g. What the Respondent did in response to the complaint; and,
                                 h. Complete investigation to include witness interviews,
                                 disposition reports, corrective action issued, etc.

                 Attachment B is a true and correct copy of the RFI.




1
 All Attachment designations appear on the lower right corner of the document, except for Attachment P which
appears on the upper right portion of the document.

                                                       2
     Case 2:25-cv-06502      Document 1-3        Filed 11/18/25      Page 3 of 7




8.      On May 12, 2025, Respondent responded to Item 1 of the RFI, contending that it

        received directly just two complaints, and a third from its Division of Public

        Safety, out of 20,000 employees. Respondent, however, refused to furnish the

        requested information, arguing that it was confidential. Attachment C is a true and

        correct copy of the relevant portion of Respondent’s response.

9.      Item 5 of EEOC’s March 27, 2025 RFI sought

               a list of all clubs, groups, organizations and recreation groups (hereinafter
               referred to as “organizations”) related to the Jewish religion, faith,
               ancestry/National Origin. For each organization listed, produce the
               following information:
                        a. Name of organization;
                        b. Indicate if the organization is run by employees and/or
                        volunteers;
                        c. Identify the organization Point of Contact by first and last name;
                        d. Produce the organizations Point of Contact’s contact information
                        to include phone number, email address and mailing address;
                        e. Produce a roster of organization members. For each member
                        listed, indicate if they are a University employee or volunteer;
                        f. For employees identified on the roster, produce their last known
                        contact information to include personal phone number, email
                        address and mailing address; and,
                        g. Produce the organization’s website, if applicable.”

        See Attachment B.

10.     On May 12, 2025, Respondent responded to Item 5 of the RFI, refusing to supply

        the information on the grounds that it was “impermissibly overbroad,” irrelevant,

        “an unreasonable intrusion into the private lives of the members of these

        organizations,” and then referred EEOC back to its response to Item 1, above, in

        which it generically referred to complaints from three out of 20,000 employees.

        Attachment D is a true and correct copy of the relevant portion of Respondent’s

        response.

11.     Item 7 of EEOC’s March 27, 2025 RFI sought

                                         3
  Case 2:25-cv-06502       Document 1-3        Filed 11/18/25     Page 4 of 7




             a list of employees in the Jewish Studies Program at the University of
             Pennsylvania department during the period of November 1, 2022, to the
             present. For each employee listed, produce the following information:
                      a. First and last name;
                      b. Position title;
                      c. Dates of employment;
                      d. Location/campus; and,
                      e. Last known contact information to include personal email
                      address, phone number and mailing address.

      See Attachment B.

12.   On May 12, 2025, Respondent refused to provide the requested information,

      arguing that these employees’ identities were confidential and irrelevant to the

      Charge. Attachment E is a true and correct copy of the relevant portion of

      Respondent’s response.

13.   During EEOC’s investigation, Respondent furnished copies of letters to the

      Respondent community from its former President, its Interim President, and its

      Provost acknowledging that antisemitism was escalating throughout its

      establishment. Attachments F through O are true and correct copies of these

      letters describing antisemitic events at Respondent. Attachment P is a true and

      correct copy of a notation furnished by Respondent describing a harassing event

      occurring in January 2025.

14.   On July 23, 2025, EEOC served Subpoena PA-25-07 (the Subpoena) on

      Respondent. It was specifically addressed to its General Counsel Wendy White

      with its outside counsel Debo Adegbile copied thereon. Attachment Q is a true

      and correct copy of the Subpoena, which required Respondent to:

             1. Produce complaints by employees; including but not limited to: faculty
             (including, but not limited to, tenured, non-tenured, and adjunct
             professors), staff, and other employees (including, but not limited to,
             students employed by the University), of discrimination based on Jewish

                                       4
Case 2:25-cv-06502     Document 1-3       Filed 11/18/25      Page 5 of 7




         religion, faith, ancestry/National Origin and/or complaints of anti-
         Semitism from November 1, 2022, to the present. For each complaint,
         produce the following information:
                 a. First and Last name of complaining employee;
                 b. Position title of complaining employee;
                 c. Dates of employment of complaining employee;
                 d. The complaint;
                 e. The method of complaint (ie hotline, email, in-person, etc.);
                 f. Identify Respondent Official(s) by name (first and last) and
                 position title who had a role in the investigation, disposition or
                 outcome of the complaint;
                 g. What the Respondent did in response to the complaint; and,
                 h. Complete investigation to include witness interviews,
                 disposition reports, corrective action issued, etc.
         2. Produce a list of all clubs, groups, organizations and recreation groups
         (hereinafter referred to as “organizations”) related to the Jewish religion,
         faith, ancestry/National Origin. For each organization listed, produce the
         following information:
                 a. Name of organization;
                 b. Indicate if the organization is run by employees and/or
                 volunteers;
                 c. Identify the organization Point of Contact by first and last name;
                 d. Produce the organizations Point of Contact’s contact information
                 to include phone number, email address and mailing address;
                 e. Produce a roster of organization members. For each member
                 listed, indicate if they are a University employee or volunteer;
                 f. For employees identified on the roster, produce their last known
                 contact information to include personal phone number, email
                 address and mailing address; and,
                 g. Produce the organization’s website, if applicable.
         3. Produce a list of employees in the Jewish Studies Program at the
         University of Pennsylvania department during the period of November 1,
         2022, to the present. For each employee listed, produce the following
         information:
                 a. First and last name;
                 b. Position title;
                 c. Dates of employment;
                 d. Location/campus; and,
                 e. Last known contact information to include personal email
                 address, phone number and mailing address.
         4. Produce a list of staff and faculty members who participated in the
         Listening Sessions held in March 2024 as part of the University of
         Pennsylvania Task Force on Antisemitism (TFAS). For each staff or
         faculty member listed, produce the following information:
                 a. First and last name;
                 b. Position Title;

                                   5
          Case 2:25-cv-06502          Document 1-3         Filed 11/18/25       Page 6 of 7




                                c. Date of employment; and
                                d. Last known contact information to include personal email
                                address, phone number, and mailing address.
                        5. Produce all notes taken as part of the seven (7) listening sessions
                        conducted in March 2024 as part of the University of Pennsylvania Task
                        Force on Antisemitism (TFAS).
                        6. Produce a list of all faculty and staff members who received the
                        University of Pennsylvania Task Force on Antisemitism’s online Qualtrics
                        survey. For each individual provide the following:
                                a. First and Last name;
                                b. Staff Member (Y/N);
                                c. Faculty Member (Y/N);
                                d. Position Title;
                                e. Date of Employment;
                                f. Copy all survey responses; and
                                g. Last known contact information to include personal email
                                address, phone number, and mailing address.
                        7. Produce a list of staff and faculty members who were identified in the
                        February 26, 2024 social media post from the handle
                        “penn.against.the.occupation” captioned “We Condemn…Any Penn
                        faculty supporting the ongoing scholasticide in Palestine.” For each staff
                        or faculty member identified, provide the following information:
                                a. First and last name;
                                b. Position Title;
                                c. Dates of employment;
                                d. Last known contact information to include personal email
                                address, phone number, and mailing address. 2
                        8. Identify the individuals who reported the “penn.against.the.occupation”
                        February 26, 2024 social media post to the University of Pennsylvania’s
                        Division of Public Safety. For each individual identified, provide the
                        following information:
                                a. First and last name;
                                b. Position Title;
                                c. Dates of employment;
                                d. Copy of complaint; and
                                e. Last known contact information to include personal email
                                address, phone number, and mailing address.
                        9. Provide the complete investigation for the “Penn Students Against the
                        Occupation” investigative report, including witness interviews, notes,
                        disposition reports, corrective action issued, etc.




2
 Items 7, 8, and 9 were follow-up queries to Respondent’s description of these events, which lacked
names and details. See Attachment R.
                                                   6
          Case 2:25-cv-06502          Document 1-3          Filed 11/18/25          Page 7 of 7




       15.     On July 30, 2025, Respondent filed with the Commission its Petition to Revoke or

               Modify the Subpoena, and after carefully considering the Petition, the EEOC

               modified Request No. 2 to limit the response solely to the identity of employees,

               not students. The modified Request No. 2 reads as follows:

                       Produce a list of all clubs, groups, organizations and recreation groups
                       (hereinafter referred to as “organizations”) related to the Jewish religion, faith,
                       ancestry/National Origin. For each organization listed, produce the following
                       information:
                       a. Name of organization;
                       b. Indicate if the organization is run by employees and/or volunteers;
                       c. Identify the organization Point of Contact by first and last name if such Point
                       of Contact is an employee of Respondent;
                       d. Produce the organizations Point of Contact’s contact information to include
                       phone number, email address and mailing address if such Point of Contact is an
                       employee of Respondent;
                       e. Produce a roster of organization members who are employees of Respondent.
                       f. For employees identified on the roster, produce their last known contact
                       information to include personal phone number, email address and mailing
                       address; and,
                       g. Produce the organization’s website, if applicable.

       16.     The Commission upheld the remainder of the subpoena as set forth in its

               Determination, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment

               S.

       17.     Respondent continues to refuse to furnish the requested information, which has

               severely hampered the EEOC’s investigation.

I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
                                                                            Digitally signed by Karen
                                                                            McDonough
                                                                            Date: 2025.11.17 17:03:24
Executed: ____11/17/2025__________                       ____________________
                                                                            -05'00'

                                                         Karen McDonough
                                                         Deputy Director
                                                         U.S. EEOC
                                                         Philadelphia District Office




                                                    7
