Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/71908146/1/manley-v-spread-bagelry-inc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in MANLEY v. SPREAD BAGELRY, INC. (E.D. Pa., 2:25-cv-06412) – CourtListener.com

            Case 2:25-cv-06412        Document 1        Filed 11/13/25       Page 1 of 12




                      IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

   SAMUEL MANLEY,                              )
                                               ) CIVIL ACTION NO.: 2:25-cv-6412
               Plaintiff,                      )
                                               )
                       v.                      )
                                               ) JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
   SPREAD BAGELRY, INC.,                       )
                                               )
               Defendant.                      )

                                            COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Samuel Manley, by and through his attorneys, brings this civil action for

damages against the above-named Defendant, Spread Bagelry, Inc., demands a trial by jury, and

complains and alleges as follows:

                                 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

       1.      Jurisdiction of the claims set forth in this Complaint is proper in this judicial district

pursuant to Section 1981 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866 (“Section 1981”), as amended, 42 U.S.C.

§ 1981, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (“Title VII”), as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq.,

and 28 U.S.C. §§1331 and 1343, as well as pendent state law claims arising under the provisions

of the laws of this Commonwealth, to wit, the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (“PHRA”).

       2.      This Honorable Court has jurisdiction to hear Plaintiff’s pendent state law claim

pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1367, as his state-law claims arise from the same transactions and

occurrences as his federal claims.

       3.      Venue is proper in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §

1391(b) because a substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to these claims occurred

in this Judicial District, and because the unlawful discrimination practices that are the subject of

                                                   1
            Case 2:25-cv-06412       Document 1         Filed 11/13/25   Page 2 of 12




this action were committed in this Judicial District.

                               ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS

       4.      On or about August 28, 2023, Mr. Manley filed a Charge of Discrimination with

the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (the “EEOC”), which was docketed as Charge

No. 530-2024-08951. The filing included instructions for the EEOC to dual file his

discrimination claims with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission.

       5.      Mr. Manley has been advised of his individual right to bring a civil action against

Defendant through receipt of a Dismissal and Notice of Right from the EEOC, dated September

11, 2025.

       6.      Mr. Manley has exhausted all administrative remedies available to him, and all

necessary and appropriate administrative prerequisites to the filing of this Complaint have

occurred and been satisfied.

                                         THE PARTIES

       7.      Plaintiff, Samuel Manley (“Mr. Manley”) is an adult African American individual

residing in Philadelphia, Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania.

       8.      Defendant, Spread Bagelry, Inc., (“Spread Bagelry”) is a Pennsylvania

corporation with a      primary business address of 262 South 20th Street, Philadelphia,

Pennsylvania 19103.

       9.      At all times relevant to this Complaint, Spread Bagelry owned and maintained a

restaurant location at 40 Skippack Pike, Ambler, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania 19002.

       10.     At all times relevant to this Complaint, Spread Bagelry employed in excess of

fifteen (15) employees, including Mr. Manley, making Spread Bagelry an “employer” as

defined under Title VII.


                                                 2
          Case 2:25-cv-06412        Document 1       Filed 11/13/25     Page 3 of 12




                                  STATEMENT OF FACTS

       11.    In or around May 2024, Mr. Manley was hired by Spread Bagelry as a Cook at its

restaurant establishment located at 40 Skippack Pike, Amber, PA 19002 (the “Ambler location”).

       12.    As a Cook, Mr. Manley was responsible for ensuring food safety and cleanliness,

as well as working with other team members to maintain operational efficiency.

       13.    At all times during his employment with Spread Bagelry, Mr. Manley was a hard-

working, qualified employee and performed his job at an above-satisfactory level.

       14.    During his first week of employment at the Ambler location, Mr. Manley was

scheduled to work with Coworker and Barista, Sofia Mangle (“Ms. Mangle”).

       15.    Mr. Manley is an adult, Black African-American (race) male.

       16.    Ms. Mangle is an adult, Caucasian (race) female.

       17.    Throughout his employment with Spread Bagelry, Mr. Manley endured

discrimination and harassment by his coworker Ms. Mangle, because of his race.

       18.    During Mr. Manley and Ms. Mangle’s first shift working with one another Ms.

Mangle informed Mr. Manley that her family does not respect black people.

       19.    Soon thereafter, Mr. Manley made a good-faith report of Ms. Mangle’s racially

disparaging statement to his District Manager, Ben (last name unknown).

       20.    Mr. Manley is aware of a former African American employee at the Ambler

location who made similar complaints of race discrimination to this District manager about Ms.

Mangle.

       21.    Following this report of race discrimination, Spread Bagelry never followed up

with Mr. Manley about Ms. Mangle’s discriminatory behavior.

                                               3
           Case 2:25-cv-06412         Document 1     Filed 11/13/25    Page 4 of 12




       22.     Due to Spread Bagelry’s failure to address his complaint, Mr. Manley was

subjected to further harassment by Ms. Mangle.

       23.     For example, Ms. Mangle told Mr. Manley she did not believe that African

American men know how to take care of themselves, and that they should consider themselves

lucky if white women gave them their time.

       24.     Mr. Manley continued to make good faith reports of this racially hostile work

environment.

       25.     On or about August 14, 2024, Spread Bagelry assigned Emily Buckman (“Ms.

Buckman”), a new Area Manager, to oversee the Ambler location.

       26.     In hopes that his reports of Ms. Mangle’s harassment would finally be addressed,

Mr. Manley reinstated to Ms. Buckman his previously issued complaints of Ms. Mangle’s

offensive and unwelcome racial harassment.

       27.     After making this report to Ms. Buckham, Ms. Mangle made a false complaint to

Ms. Buckman that Mr. Manley was “aggressive” toward her, a negative stereotype often

attributed to African American men.

       28.     On or about August 18, 2024, Mr. Manley’s employment with Spread Bagelry

was terminated, just days after Mr. Manley reported race discrimination and harassment to Ms.

Buckham.

       29.     Following Mr. Manley’s termination, Ms. Mangle maintained her employment

with Spread Bagelry.

       30.     Mr. Manley’s termination was unlawful retaliation for engaging in the protected

activity of reporting unlawful racial discrimination and harassment, all of which violated his


                                                 4
          Case 2:25-cv-06412         Document 1       Filed 11/13/25      Page 5 of 12




federal rights under Section 1981, Title VII and the PHRA.

                                            COUNT I

                                   TITLE VII VIOLATION
                                     Race Discrimination

       31.     All prior paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth fully below.

       32.     Spread Bagelry violated Title VII by discriminating against Mr. Manley on the

basis of his race (African American) resulting in his termination.

       33.     As a consequence of Spread Bagelry’s discriminatory actions, Mr. Manley was

subjected to emotional distress, humiliation, ridicule, and a negative effect on his work product

and ability to fully and effectively perform his job duties and responsibilities, all of which

manifested itself in mental and physical distress, injury, and damage.

       34.     As a result of Spread Bagelry’s discriminatory actions, Mr. Manley has suffered

economic loss, emotional distress, and a loss of self-respect and confidence, and he has been

subjected to great damage to his career and professional standing.

       35.     The actions of Spread Bagelry set forth above constitute violations of Mr.

Manley’s federal civil rights under Title VII

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Samuel Manley, seeks damages against Defendant, Spread

Bagelry, Inc., as set forth in the Ad Damnum clause of the instant Complaint, infra.

                                           COUNT II

                                   TITLE VII VIOLATION
                               Hostile Work Environment - Race

       36.     All prior paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth fully below.


                                                 5
           Case 2:25-cv-06412        Document 1          Filed 11/13/25    Page 6 of 12




       37.     Mr. Manley was subjected to a hostile work environment on the basis of his

African American race in violation of Title VII, as described above.

       38.     The hostile work environment to which Mr. Manley was subjected would have

detrimentally affected any reasonable person in his position.

       39.     Spread Bagelry’s failure to maintain a workplace free from a hostile work

environment on the basis of race and skin color was intentional, malicious, and in reckless

indifference to Mr. Manley’s protected federal rights.

       40.     At all times relevant and material to this Complaint, Mr. Manley was a member of

a protected class.

       41.     As a result of Spread Bagelry’s actions, Mr. Manley had his reputation damaged

and standing in the community lowered, has suffered and continues to suffer pain, humiliation,

ridicule, and embarrassment, has endured public humiliation, ridicule, and embarrassment before

his family and friends, as well as sustained economic losses.

       42.     Mr. Manley has suffered and continues to suffer irreparable harm as a result of

Spread Bagelry’s violation of his protected federal rights.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Samuel Manley, seeks the damages against Defendant, Spread

Bagelry, Inc., as set forth in the Ad Damnum clause of the instant Complaint, infra., which total

amount exceeds the jurisdictional limits for mandatory arbitration referral.

                                           COUNT III

                                 42 U.S.C. § 1981 VIOLATION
                                      Race Discrimination

       43.     All prior paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth fully below.

       44.     At all times relevant herein, Mr. Manley maintained or sought to maintain a

contractual relationship with Spread Bagelry (i.e., an employment relationship).
                                                 6
          Case 2:25-cv-06412         Document 1        Filed 11/13/25      Page 7 of 12




       45.     At all times relevant herein, Spread Bagelry acted by and through its agents,

servants, and employees to intentionally discriminate against Mr. Manley on the basis of his

African American race and thereby deny him the benefits of the contractual relationship he had

entered into with Spread Bagelry.

       46.     As a consequence of Spread Bagelry’s discriminatory actions and failures to act,

Mr. Manley was subjected to emotional distress, humiliation, ridicule, and a negative effect on his

work product and ability to fully and effectively perform his job duties and responsibilities, all of

which manifested itself in mental and physical distress, injury, and damage.

       47.     As a result of Spread Bagelry’s discriminatory actions, Mr. Manley has suffered

economic loss, emotional distress, and a loss of self-respect and confidence, and he has been

subjected to great damage to his career and professional standing.

       48.     The actions of Spread Bagelry set forth above constitute violations of Mr.

Manley’s federal civil rights under Section 1981.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Samuel Manley seeks damages against Defendant, Spread

Bagelry, Inc., as set forth in the Ad Damnum clause of the instant Complaint, infra.

                                            COUNT IV

                                 42 U.S.C. § 1981 VIOLATION
                                Hostile Work Environment - Race


       49.     All prior paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth fully below.

       50.     Mr. Manley was subjected to a hostile work environment on the basis of his

African American race and skin color in violation of Title VII, as described above.

       51.     The hostile work environment to which Mr. Manley was subjected would have

detrimentally affected any reasonable person in his position.

                                                 7
           Case 2:25-cv-06412        Document 1          Filed 11/13/25    Page 8 of 12




       52.     Spread Bagelry’s failure to maintain a workplace free from a hostile work

environment on the basis of race and skin color was intentional, malicious, and in reckless

indifference to Mr. Manley’s protected federal rights.

       53.     At all times relevant and material to this Complaint, Mr. Manley was a member of

a protected class.

       54.     As a result of Spread Bagelry’s actions, Mr. Manley has had his reputation

damaged and standing in the community lowered, has suffered and continues to suffer pain,

humiliation, ridicule, and embarrassment, has endured public humiliation, ridicule, and

embarrassment before his family and friends, as well as sustained economic losses.

       55.     Mr. Manley has suffered and continues to suffer irreparable harm as a result of

Spread Bagelry, Inc. violation of his protected federal rights.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Samuel Manley, seeks the damages against Defendant, Spread

Bagelry Inc., as set forth in the Ad Damnum clause of the instant Complaint, infra., which total

amount exceeds the jurisdictional limits for mandatory arbitration referral.

                                            COUNT V

                                       PHRA VIOLATION
                                       Race Discrimination

       56.     All prior paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth fully below.

       57.     This is an action arising under the provisions of the PHRA, and this Court has, and

should exercise, pendant jurisdiction over the same because the causes or actions complained of in

this Count V arise out of the same facts, events and circumstances as Counts I and III, and

therefore judicial economy and fairness to the parties dictates that this Count be brought in the

same Complaint.

       58.     By discriminating against Mr. Manley on the basis of race, Spread Bagelry violated

                                                 8
           Case 2:25-cv-06412         Document 1         Filed 11/13/25    Page 9 of 12




the provisions of 43 P.S. § 955 which prohibit discrimination based upon race and national origin.

        59.     As more fully set forth in Counts I and III, Mr. Manley has suffered directly and

solely as a result of Spread Bagelry’s actions, great pecuniary loss, damage and harm and will

continue to suffer the same for the indefinite future.

        WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Samuel Manley                 seeks damages       against Defendant,

Spread Bagelry, Inc., as set forth in the Ad Damnum clause of the instant Complaint, infra.

                                             COUNT VI

                                       PHRA VIOLATION
                                 Hostile Work Environment – Race

        60.     All prior paragraphs are incorporated herein as if set forth fully below.

        61.     Mr. Manley was subjected to harassment (a hostile work environment) on the

basis of his African American race in violation of the PHRA.

        62.     The race-based harassment (a hostile work environment) to which Mr. Manley

was subjected would have detrimentally affected any reasonable person in his position.

        63.     Spread Bagelry’s failure to maintain a workplace free from harassment (a hostile

work environment) on the basis of race and skin color was intentional, malicious, and in reckless

indifference to Mr. Manley’s protected federal rights.

        64.     At all times relevant and material to this Complaint, Mr. Manley was a member of

a protected class.

        65.     As a result of Spread Bagelry’s actions, Mr. Manley had his reputation damaged

and standing in the community lowered, has suffered and continues to suffer pain, humiliation,

ridicule, and embarrassment, has endured public humiliation, ridicule, and embarrassment before

his family and friends, as well as sustained economic losses.



                                                   9
            Case 2:25-cv-06412       Document 1          Filed 11/13/25   Page 10 of 12




       66.      Mr. Manley has suffered and continues to suffer irreparable harm as a result of

Spread Bagelry’s violation of his protected federal rights.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Samuel Manley, seeks the damages against Defendant, Spread

Bagelry, Inc., as set forth in the Ad Damnum clause of the instant Complaint, infra., which total

amount exceeds the jurisdictional limits for mandatory arbitration referral.

                        AD DAMNUM CLAUSE/PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, Samuel Manley, prays that the Court enter judgment in his

favor and against the Defendant, Spread Bagelry, Inc., and that the Court enter an Order as

follows:

       a.       Defendant is to be permanently enjoined from discriminating or retaliating against

                Plaintiff on the basis of his race, color, and/or any basis prohibited under

                applicable federal and state law;

       b.       Defendant is to be prohibited from continuing to maintain its illegal policy,

                practice, or custom of discriminating against employees based on their race or

                color and is to be ordered to promulgate an effective policy against such

                discrimination and to adhere thereto;

       c.       Defendant is to compensate Plaintiff, reimburse Plaintiff, and to make Plaintiff

                whole for any and all pay and benefits Plaintiff would have received had it not been

                for Defendant’s illegal actions, including but not limited to back pay, front pay,

                salary, pay increases, bonuses, medical and other benefits, training, promotions,

                pension and seniority. Plaintiff should be accorded those benefits illegally withheld

                from the date he first suffered discrimination at the hands of Defendant until the

                date of verdict;


                                                    10
     Case 2:25-cv-06412       Document 1        Filed 11/13/25       Page 11 of 12




d.       Plaintiff is to be awarded actual damages, as well as damages for the pain, suffering,

         and humiliation caused to him by Defendant’s actions;

e.       Plaintiff is to be awarded punitive damages pursuant to Section 1981;


f.       Plaintiff is to be accorded any and all other equitable and legal relief as the Court

         deems just, proper, and appropriate;

g.       Plaintiff is to be awarded the costs and expenses of this action and reasonable legal

         fees as provided by applicable federal and state law;

h.       Any verdict in favor of Plaintiff is to be molded by the Court to maximize the

         financial recovery available to Plaintiff in light of the caps on certain damages set

         forth in applicable federal and state law;

i.       Plaintiff is to be granted such additional injunctive or other relief as he may request

         during the pendency of this action in an effort to ensure Defendant does not engage

         – or ceases engaging – in illegal retaliation against Plaintiff or other witnesses to

         this action; and

j.       The Court is to maintain jurisdiction of this action after verdict to ensure

         compliance with its Orders therein.




                                           11
          Case 2:25-cv-06412      Document 1      Filed 11/13/25     Page 12 of 12




                                   DEMAND FOR JURY

       Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 38(b) and otherwise, Plaintiff respectfully

demands a jury trial.



                                                  Respectfully submitted,

                                                  WEISBERG CUMMINGS, P.C.

Dated: November 13, 2025                          /s/ Derrek W. Cummings
                                                  Derrek W. Cummings, Esquire
                                                  PA I.D. #: 83286
                                                  dcummings@weisbergcummings.com

                                                  /s/ Larry A. Weisberg
                                                  Larry A. Weisberg, Esquire
                                                  PA I.D. #: 83410
                                                  lweisberg@weisbergcummings.com

                                                  /s/ Steve T. Mahan
                                                  Steve T. Mahan, Esquire
                                                  PA I.D. #: 313550
                                                  smahan@weisbergcummings.com

                                                  /s/ Michael J. Bradley
                                                  Michael J. Bradley, Esquire
                                                  PA I.D. #: 329880
                                                  mbradley@weisbergcummings.com

                                                  2704 Commerce Drive, Suite B
                                                  Harrisburg, PA 17110-9380
                                                  (717) 238-5707
                                                  (717) 233-8133 (Fax)

                                                  Counsel for Plaintiff




                                             12
