Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/71562767/1/taylor-v-miles-and-mila-enterprises-inc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in TAYLOR v. MILES AND MILA ENTERPRISES, INC. (E.D. Pa., 2:25-cv-05744) – CourtListener.com

       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM           Document 1       Filed 10/06/25      Page 1 of 21




DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
TIMOTHY J. PROL, ESQ.
PA Attorney ID: 319524
NJ Attorney ID: 125782014
1628 Pine Street
Philadelphia, PA 19103
Phone: 215-391-4790
Fax: 215-893-5288
Email: tim@dereksmithlaw.com
Attorneys for Plaintiff, Sabrina Taylor

                IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
             FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA
                 ________________________________________
                                  :
SABRINA TAYLOR                    :
                                  :
                      Plaintiff   :
      v.                          :
                                  :     Civil Action No.
MILES AND MILA ENTERPRISES , INC. :
and FAMOUS TATUM (individually)   :
                                  :
                      Defendants :      Jury Trial Demanded
                 ________________________________________

                                     CIVIL COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Sabrina Taylor, by and through her attorneys, The Derek Smith Law Group,

PLLC, hereby brings this civil action pursuant to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e

et. seq. (“Title VII”), the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (“PHRA”), 43 P.S. § 951, et. seq.,

and seeks relief from discrimination, harassment, disparate treatment, hostile work environment,

and retaliation related to Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants, Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc.

and Famous Tatum (individually) (collectively “Defendants”) and avers the following:




                                                1
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM              Document 1      Filed 10/06/25       Page 2 of 21




                                       NATURE OF CASE

1. This action arises out of the unlawful discrimination, hostile work environment, and retaliation

   by Defendants against Plaintiff on the basis of her sex and gender.

2. Plaintiff brings this action charging that Defendants violated Plaintiff’s rights pursuant to Title

   VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (“Title VII”), 18 U.S.C.A. §§ 1591, 18 PA CSA 3012, the

   Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, as amended, 42 U.S. §§ 951, et. seq. (“PHRA”), and

   common law seeking damages to redress the injuries Plaintiff suffered as a result of being

   discriminated against by her employer on the basis of her sex and gender and in retaliation for

   her opposition and reporting the unlawful behavior.

3. Plaintiff seeks actual damages, compensatory damages, punitive damages, reinstatement of

   attorneys’ fees, litigation costs, and pre- and post- judgment interest as remedies for

   Defendants’ violations of his rights.



                                             PARTIES
4. Sabrina Taylor (hereinafter referred to as “Plaintiff”) is a female individual who is a resident

   of Pennsylvania.

5. Defendant, Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. was and is a company organized an existing by

   virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, with a headquarters at 651 Clinton

   Avenue, Haddonfield, New Jersey 07110 and a location at 144 Montgomery Avenue in Bala

   Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 19004.

6. At all times material, Plaintiff was employed by Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. at the Domino’s

   Pizza Bala Cynwyd location.




                                                  2
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM           Document 1       Filed 10/06/25      Page 3 of 21




7. In or around December 2023, Plaintiff was hired by Famous Tatum (hereinafter referred to as

   “Defendant Tatum”), to work at the Domino’s Pizza located at 144 Montgomery Avenue, Bala

   Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 19004.

8. Defendant Tatum is a male who, upon information and belief, resides in the Commonwealth

   of Pennsylvania.

9. At all times material Defendant Tatum maintained supervisory authority over Plaintiff and had

   the authority to hire, fire, and impact the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment.

10. Defendant Tatom was empowered by Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. to manage the Domino’s

   Pizza located at 144 Montgomery Avenue, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 19004.


                                JURISDICTION AND VENUE

11. This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this matter as it involves a Federal Question,

   28 U.S.C. §1331, and the Court maintains supplemental jurisdiction, 28 U.S.C. §1367, over

   the state law causes of action.

12. Venue is appropriate before this Court as all parties reside in the Eastern District of

   Pennsylvania and all actions and omissions giving rise to this litigation occurred in the Eastern

   District of Pennsylvania (i.e., Berks, Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Lancaster, Lehigh,

   Montgomery, Northampton, and Philadelphia).

13. Furthermore, Plaintiff has exhausted administrative remedies by having filed a timely Charge

   of Discrimination with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the

   Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”), and Plaintiff having received a Notice

   of Right to Sue.




                                                3
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM           Document 1       Filed 10/06/25      Page 4 of 21




                                      MATERIAL FACTS

14. On December 22, 2023, Plaintiff started employment at Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises,

   Inc.

15. Plaintiff was not provided an employee handbook.

16. Plaintiff was not provided any training regarding sexual harassment in the workplace,

   including where and how to report sexual harassment.

17. Immediately after Plaintiff was hired, Defendant Tatum began making lewd remarks and

   sexual advances towards Plaintiff.

18. These remarks and advances were unwelcome.

19. Defendant Tatum told Plaintiff that she should have sex and/or “sleep with” various and sundry

   coworkers at the Domino’s location at 144 Montgomery Avenue, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania

   19004.

20. Plaintiff told Defendant Tatum that she was not romantically interested in her coworkers and

   rebuffed Defendant Tatum’s lewd sexual commentary.

21. Plaintiff noted at the time of the initial remarks, Defendant Tatum was visibly intoxicated.

22. The next day, about December 23, 2023, at about 1:50 a.m., Defendant Tatum offered Plaintiff

   a ride home.

23. Plaintiff was driven home by Defendant Tatum.

24. Defendant Tatum then made deliberate and overt sexual advances towards Plaintiff in an

   attempt to convince Plaintiff to engage in sexual activity with him.

25. Plaintiff was appalled and repulsed by Defendant Tatum’s persistent sexual advances and

   rebuffed, declined, and denied the sexual advances by her supervisor Defendant Tatum.




                                                 4
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM          Document 1       Filed 10/06/25      Page 5 of 21




26. After leaving Defendant Tatum’s vehicle, Plaintiff attempted to call Defendant Tatum out of

   fear for losing her job as a result of her denial of his persistent, deliberate, and sustained

   attempts to have sex with her.

27. Defendant Tatum did not answer so Plaintiff left a voicemail video.

28. That same evening, Defendant Tatum then reached out to Plaintiff, further seeking sexual

   favors and/or actions from Plaintiff, advising that he needed “something to pleasure himself”

   when he got home.

29. Due to Defendant Tatum’s sexually aggressive advances, coercion, and general demeanor

   towards her, out of fear of losing her job and fear of Defendant Tatum potentially coming to

   her home, Plaintiff sent him several photographs of herself.

30. On December 23, 2023, Plaintiff went to work and was called into the manager’s office by

   Defendant Tatum.

31. Defendant Tatum repeatedly insisted in a lascivious tone of voice that Plaintiff “come here”

   and to “come closer.”

32. Plaintiff denied and rebuffed the advances of Defendant Tatum but eventually felt forced to

   approach him, since Defendant Tatum was her manager and he made it clear through his

   demeanor that her job was on the line.

33. When Plaintiff approached, Defendant Tatum grabbed Plaintiff by the arm, pulled her closer,

   and forced a kiss on her cheek.

34. Plaintiff immediately pulled away, exclaiming, “Don’t do that again!”

35. On December 30, 2023, Defendant Tatum sexually assaulted Plaintiff by taking his hand and

   slapping her on the buttocks.




                                               5
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM            Document 1        Filed 10/06/25       Page 6 of 21




36. Plaintiff admonished Defendant Tatum in no uncertain terms and told Defendant Tatum to

   never assault her like that again.

37. About January 4, 2024, due to the hostile environment created by Defendant Tatum’s unwanted

   sexual advances and sexual assault, Plaintiff called out of work via text.

38. Defendant Tatum advised that Defendant Tatum was terminating Plaintiff’s employment.

39. Defendant Tatum gave no reason for Plaintiff’s termination.

40. About January 5, 2024, Plaintiff sent Defendant Tatum text messages inquiring as to why he

   thought it was okay to sexually assault her by slapping her buttocks and forcing a kiss on her.

41. Defendant Tatum replied that he did not recall and did not know if he was drinking at the time.

42. Plaintiff advised that she did not believe he was drinking at the time he assaulted her.

43. Defendant Tatum responded that “we do plenty of things at work that we shouldn’t.”

44. Plaintiff trusted her employer, Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc., to ensure a work environment

   free from sexual harassment and to protect her from same.

45. Yet instead, Plaintiff was sexually harassed, sexually assaulted, and was terminated when she

   resisted unwanted and unwelcome overt and quid-pro-quo sexual advances by her supervisor,

   Defendant Tatum.

46. Plaintiff feels violated, degraded, ashamed, and dejected as a result of the sexual assault, sexual

   harassment, and hostile work environment she endured at the hands of Defendant Tatum, but

   perhaps more disturbingly, Plaintiff feels like she should not have resisted the unlawful and

   unwelcome sexual harassment she endured due to the loss of her job.

47. Therefore, Defendants' willful and reckless unlawful actions in this matter have a chilling

   effect not only on Plaintiff, causing her further harm, damages, and injury, but have a chilling

   effect which would reverberate throughout the system if not addressed.



                                                  6
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM            Document 1        Filed 10/06/25       Page 7 of 21




48. As a result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiff felt extremely humiliated, degraded, victimized,

   embarrassed and emotionally distressed.

49. As a result of the acts and conduct complained of herein, Plaintiff has suffered and the loss of

   income, the loss of salary, bonuses, benefits and other compensation which such employment

   entails, and Plaintiff also suffered future pecuniary losses, emotional pain, humiliation,

   suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.

50. Plaintiff has further experienced severe emotional and physical distress.

51. As a result of Defendants' conduct, the Plaintiff was caused to sustain serious and permanent

   personal injuries, including but not limited to permanent psychological injuries.

52. As Defendants' conduct has been malicious, willful, outrageous, and conducted with full

   knowledge of the law, Plaintiff demands Punitive Damages against all the Defendants jointly

   and severally.

53. Plaintiff further claims aggravation, activation and/or exacerbation of any preexisting

   condition.

54. Plaintiff claims that Defendants unlawfully discriminated against Plaintiff because of her

   gender and because she opposed the unlawful conduct of Defendants related to the above

   protected classes.

55. Plaintiff further claims constructive and/or actual discharge to the extent Plaintiff is terminated

   from Plaintiff’s position as a result of the unlawful discrimination and retaliation.

56. The above are just some examples of some of the discrimination and retaliation to which

   Defendants subjected Plaintiff to on a continuous and on-going basis throughout Plaintiff’s

   employment.




                                                  7
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM               Document 1      Filed 10/06/25      Page 8 of 21




57. The Defendants have exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination but also

   retaliation.

58. Plaintiff claims alternatively that Plaintiff is an Independent Contractor, and Plaintiff makes

   all applicable claims for the above conduct and facts under the applicable law pertaining to

   Independent Contractors. Furthermore, in such case, Plaintiff claims that Defendant owed and

   breached its duty to Plaintiff to prevent the harassment, discrimination, and retaliation and is

   liable therefore for negligence.

59. Plaintiff claims a continuous practice of discrimination and claims a continuing violation and

   makes all claims herein under the continuing violations doctrine.


                                          CAUSES OF ACTION
                                            COUNT I
                   Disparate Treatment Sex Discrimination in Violation of
              Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq.
                    (Plaintiff v. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc.)

60. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint as

   if fully set forth herein at length.

61. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2 provides in relevant part:

                  a.      “It shall be unlawful employment practice for an employer (1) to fail
                  or refuse to hire or discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate
                  against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions,
                  or privileges of employment, because of such individual’s race, color,
                  religion, sex, or national origin; or (2) limit, segregate, or classify his
                  employees or applicants for employment in any wat which would deprive
                  or tend to deprive any individual of employment opportunities or otherwise
                  adversely affect his status as an employee, because of such individual’s
                  race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.”


                  42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2

62. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(d) further provides that “it shall

   be an unlawful employment practice for an employer… controlling… training or retraining,
                                                    8
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM           Document 1         Filed 10/06/25    Page 9 of 21




   including on-the-job training programs to discriminate against any individual because of his

   race, color, religion, sex, or national origin in admission to, or employment in, any program

   established to provide training.”

63. Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by Title VII by intentionally

   discriminating against Plaintiff with respect to her compensation, terms, conditions, training,

   and privileges of employment because of her sex.

64. Defendants subjected Plaintiff to adverse tangible employment actions – defined as significant

   changes in Plaintiff’s employment status, discipline, denial of training, failure to promote,

   reassignment with significantly different job responsibilities, and decisions causing significant

   changes in her employment benefits.

65. At all times material, Plaintiff was and is a woman.

66. At all times material, Defendants had knowledge of Plaintiff’s sex.

67. At all times material, Defendants held supervisory authority over Plaintiff with respect to her

   employment.

68. At all times material, Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. authorized Defendant Tatum

   to take tangible employment action against Plaintiff as an employee of Miles and Mila

   Enterprises, Inc.

69. As alleged herein, Defendants intentionally discriminated against Plaintiff with regard to the

   terms and conditions of her employment on the basis Plaintiff’s membership in one or more

   protected classes.

70. At all times material, Defendants’ discriminatory conduct, included but not limited to

   Defendant Tatum groping Plaintiff’s buttocks, forcefully kissing her, making lewd remarks,

   and all Defendants’ subsequent conduct thereafter, was not welcomed by Plaintiff.



                                                9
      Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM           Document 1        Filed 10/06/25      Page 10 of 21




71. At all times material, Defendants’ conduct towards Plaintiff was intentionally based upon

   Plaintiff’s membership in one or more protected classes.

72. At all times material, Plaintiff’s membership in one or more protected classes were motivating

   and/or determinative factors in Defendants’ discriminatory conduct.

73. Defendants cannot show any legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons for its employment

   practices and any reasons proffered by Defendants for their actions against Plaintiff are

   pretextual.

74. As alleged herein, Defendants’ discriminatory and harassing actions towards Plaintiff because

   of Plaintiff’s membership in one or more protected classes are unlawful employment practices

   in violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

75. Defendants’ unlawful employment actions towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and

   made with reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

76. Defendants acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

77. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. is vicariously liable for the unlawful employment

   actions by Defendant Tatum against Plaintiff in the course and scope of her employment with

   Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc.

78. An employer is strictly liable for supervisor harassment that culminates in a tangible

   employment action, such as discharge, demotion, or undesirable reassignment. Pa. State

   Police v. Suders, 542 U.S. 129 (2004)(citing Faragher v. City of Boca Raton, 524 U.S. 775

   (1998) and Burlington Indus. v. Ellerth, 524 U.S. 742 (1998)).

79. As a result of Defendants’ unlawful discrimination in violation of Title VII, Plaintiff has

   suffered and continues to suffer physical, emotional, and financial harm.




                                                10
      Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM             Document 1     Filed 10/06/25      Page 11 of 21




80. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc., and Defendant Tatum’s unlawful actions towards

   Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally

   protected civil rights.

81. As a result of Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc., and Defendant Tatum’s violations

   of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including, but not limited to past and future lost

   wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life,

   humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and

   other harm, both tangible and intangible.

                                           COUNT II
                          Hostile Work Environment in Violation of
              Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq
                    (Plaintiff v. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc.)

 82. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

     as if fully set forth herein at length.

 83. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2 provides in relevant part:

               b.      “It shall be unlawful employment practice for an employer (1) to fail or
               refuse to hire or discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any
               individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of
               employment, because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national
               origin; or (2) limit, segregate, or classify his employees or applicants for
               employment in any wat which would deprive or tend to deprive any individual of
               employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his status as an employee,
               because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.”

               42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2

 84. Title VII also prohibits hostile work environment harassment, defined as unwanted

     comments or conduct regarding the Plaintiff’s protected characteristics that have the purpose

     or effect of unreasonably interfering with the terms and conditions of the Plaintiff’s

     employment. Harris v. Forklift Systems, 510 U.S. 17, 21 (1993).



                                                11
     Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM           Document 1        Filed 10/06/25      Page 12 of 21




85. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum in his capacity as

   Plaintiff’s supervisor, intentionally discriminated against Plaintiff in the terms and conditions

   of her employment on the basis of Plaintiff’s sex.

86. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. delegated to Defendant Tatum the authority to

   control Plaintiff’s work environment, and they abused that authority to create a hostile work

   environment.

87. The conduct of Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant was sufficiently

   severe to alter the conditions of Plaintiff’s employment.

88. The conduct of Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum was

   sufficiently severe to create an abusive working environment.

89. At all times material, Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc.’s and Defendant Tatum’s

   intentional, discrimination based on Plaintiff’s sex was not welcomed by Plaintiff.

90. At all times material, the intentional, discrimination based on Plaintiff’s sex by Defendant

   Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum was so severe or pervasive that a

   reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position would find Plaintiff’s work environment to be

   hostile or abusive.

91. At all times material, Plaintiff believed Plaintiff’s work environment to be hostile or abusive

   as a result of Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum’s

   discriminatory conduct on the basis of Plaintiff’s sex.

92. The hostile work environment alleged herein was so extreme that it resulted in material

   changes to the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment.

93. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. provided a futile avenue for complaint.

94. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. retaliated against Plaintiff for her complaints.



                                               12
    Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM             Document 1       Filed 10/06/25      Page 13 of 21




95. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

96. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum’s unlawful actions towards

   Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally

   protected civil rights.

97. As a result of Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Tatum’s violations of Title VII, Plaintiff

   has suffered damages, including, but not limited to past and future lost wages, pain and

   suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional

   distress, reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both

   tangible and intangible.

                                         COUNT III
                                  Retaliation in Violation of
            Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq.
                  (Plaintiff v. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc.)

98. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

99. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3(a) provides that

   it shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer “(1) to . . . discriminate against

   any of his employees . . . because he has opposed any practice made an unlawful employment

   practice by this subchapter, or because he has made a charge, testified, assisted or participated

   in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this subchapter.”

100. As alleged herein, Plaintiff engaged in protected activity under Title VII including, but not

   limited to opposing and reporting Defendants’ unlawful discriminatory employment

   practices, including the lewd comments and advances of Plaintiff’s manager and supervisor,

   Defendant Tatum.




                                               13
     Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM            Document 1      Filed 10/06/25      Page 14 of 21




101. At all times material, Plaintiff acted under a reasonable, good-faith belief that Plaintiff’s

   right to be free from discrimination in the workplace was being violated by Defendants’

   conduct.

102. Defendants subjected Plaintiff to materially adverse employment actions subsequent to

   Plaintiff reporting discriminatory conduct, specifically but not limited to empowering

   Defendant Tatum to hire and fire Plaintiff while engaging in his sexually-harassing

   discrimination and failing to take any corrective action against Defendant Tatum,

   culminating in Defendants’ termination of Plaintiff’s employment on January 4, 2024.

103. At all times material, Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity was the determinative factor

   in some or all of Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff.

104. At all times material, Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity was the but-for cause of some

   or all of Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff.

105. The temporal proximity between Plaintiff’s protected activity and Defendants’ decision to

   take materially adverse action against Plaintiff is unusually suggestive of a retaliatory motive

   and gives rise to an inference of causation.

106. Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff in retaliation for Plaintiff’s

   protected opposition activity were intentional, willful, and made with reckless indifference

   to Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

107. Defendants’ actions to take materially adverse employment actions against Plaintiff in

   retaliation for Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity are unlawful employment practices in

   violation of Title VII.




                                                14
     Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM            Document 1      Filed 10/06/25      Page 15 of 21




108. Defendant is vicariously liable for the unlawful actions of its employees or agents,

   including the actions of Defendant Tatum, against Plaintiff in the course and scope of her

   employment with Defendants.

109. As a result of Defendants’ retaliatory conduct in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights

   Act of 1964, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer physical, emotional, and financial

   harm.

110. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum’s unlawful actions

   towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s

   federally protected civil rights.

111. As a result of Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum’s violations

   of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including, but not limited to past and future lost

   wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life,

   humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and

   other harm, both tangible and intangible.


                                          COUNT IV
                     Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
                           (Plaintiff v. Defendant Famous Tatum)

112. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

113. Plaintiff brings this claim against Defendant Tatum in his individual capacity for

   intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).

114. To prove a claim of IIED, the following elements must be established: (1) the conduct must

   be extreme and outrageous; (2) it must be intentional or reckless; (3) it must cause emotional

   distress; and (4) that distress must be severe. Hooten v. Penna. College of Optometry, 601

                                               15
     Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM            Document 1      Filed 10/06/25      Page 16 of 21




   F.Supp. 1155 (E.D.Pa.1984); Hoy v. Angelone, 691 A.2d 476, 482 (Pa.Super. 1997);

   Restatement (Second) of Torts § 46.

115. Defendant Tatum engaged in intentionally and recklessly harassed and inflicted emotional

   injury on Plaintiffs by subjecting her to the outrageous treatment beyond all bounds of

   decency by, in his capacity as Plaintiff’s supervisor, making lewd sexual remarks, engaging

   in quid-pro-quo sexual harassment, forcing Plaintiff to kiss him, and sexually assaulting

   Plaintiff by spanking her on the buttocks, among other things.

116. Defendant Tatum mentally, and physically abused Plaintiff and treated her in a demeaning

   and inferior manner, which no reasonable person could be expected to endure.

117. As set forth above and as incorporated herein, Plaintiff sought treatment as a result of

   Defendant Tatum’s unlawful sexual harassment.

118. As a direct and proximate result of these malicious and conscious wrongful actions,

   Plaintiff has sustained severe emotional distress, resulting in bodily and mental injury, and

   damages, including punitive damages, to be determined at trial.


                                        COUNT V
            Discrimination, Disparate Treatment, Hostile Work Environment
            Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (PHRA), 43 P.S. § 951, et. seq.
                 (Plaintiff v. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc.)

119. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

120. The PHRA § 955 provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: (b) For any

   employer because of the race, color, religious creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin or

   non-job related handicap or disability or the use of a guide or support animal because of

   blindness, deafness or physical handicap of any individual or independent contractor, to



                                               16
    Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM            Document 1        Filed 10/06/25    Page 17 of 21




   refuse to hire or employ or contract with, or to bar or to discharge from employment such

   individual or independent contractor, or to otherwise discriminate against such individual or

   impendent contractor with respect to compensation, hire, tenure, terms, conditions or

   privileges of employment or contract, if the individual or independent contractor is the best

   able and most competent to perform the service required.

121. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating against the

   Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s sex and gender.

122. Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all of the applicable paragraphs

   of the PHRA § 955.

123. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. is an employer under the Pennsylvania Human

   Relations Act as it employs citizens of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and also because

   Defendant resides in the Commonwealth.

124. Defendant Famous Tatum is a supervisor and/or manager employed at all times material

   by Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and he compelled, coerced, and/or caused the

   violations of the Act alleged herein.

125. Plaintiff is protected under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act as she is an employee

   of an employer and is a member of a protected class by virtue of her sex.

126. Defendant subjected Plaintiff to a harassing, hostile work environment and disparately

   treated Plaintiff on the basis of her protected class.

127. As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s discrimination, harassment, and retaliation,

   Plaintiff has suffered loss of wages, including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss of

   amenities of employment and out of pocket expenses, emotional damages, pain and




                                               17
     Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM            Document 1      Filed 10/06/25       Page 18 of 21




   suffering, alienation, loss of confidence, loss of reputation, and other similar damages and

   harms, all to Plaintiff’s great detriment.

128. Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act.

129. Alternatively, Defendant’s actions were motivated by the foregoing discrimination and

   thus Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under the mixed-motive theory of liability.

130. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum’s unlawful actions

   towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s

   protected civil rights under PHRA.

                                       COUNT VI
                                        Retaliation
            Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (PHRA), 43 P.S. § 951, et. seq.
                 (Plaintiff v. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc.)

131. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

132. PHRA § 955(d) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: “For any

   person, employer, employment agency or labor organization to discriminate in any manner

   against any individual because such individual has opposed any practice forbidden by this

   act, or because such individual has made a civil, testified or assisted, in any manner, in any

   investigation, proceeding or hearing under this act.”

133. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discharging, retaliating, and

   otherwise discriminating against the Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s opposition to the

   unlawful employment practices of Plaintiff’s employer.

134. Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum’s unlawful actions

   towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s

   protected civil rights under PHRA.

                                                18
     Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM            Document 1      Filed 10/06/25       Page 19 of 21




135. Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act.

136. Alternatively, Defendant’s actions were motivated by the foregoing discrimination and

   thus Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under the mixed-motive theory of liability.

137. As a result of Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum’s violations

   of PHRA, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including, but not limited to past and future lost

   wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life,

   humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and

   other harm, both tangible and intangible.


                                      COUNT VII
                                 Aiding and Abetting
            Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (PHRA), 43 P.S. § 951, et. seq.
                            (Plaintiff v. Defendant Tatum)

138. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

139. PHRA § 955(e) provides that it shall be unlawful discriminatory practice: “For any person,

   employer, employment agency, labor organization or employee, to aid, abet, incite, compel

   or coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory

   practice, or to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with the provisions of this act

   or any order issued thereunder, or to attempt, directly or indirectly, to commit any act

   declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice.”

140. Defendant Tatum engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of PHRA §

   955, the discriminatory conduct.

141. Defendant Tatum’s unlawful actions towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made

   with reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s protected civil rights under PHRA.


                                               19
       Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM             Document 1        Filed 10/06/25    Page 20 of 21




 142. Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act.

 143. Alternatively, Defendant’s actions were motivated by the foregoing discrimination and

     thus Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under the mixed-motive theory of liability.

 144. As a result of Defendant Miles and Mila Enterprises, Inc. and Defendant Tatum’s violations

     of PHRA, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including, but not limited to past and future lost

     wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life,

     humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and

     other harm, both tangible and intangible.


                                          JURY DEMAND


       Plaintiff demands a jury trial on all issues to be tried.


                             DEMAND TO PRESERVE EVIDENCE

       The Defendants are hereby demanded to preserve all physical and electronic information

pertaining in any way to Plaintiff’s employment, to her potential claims, her claims to damages, to

any defenses to same, including, but not limited to electronic data storage, employment files, files,

memos, job descriptions, text messages, e-mails, spreadsheets, images, cache memory, payroll

records, paystubs, time records, timesheets, and any other information and/or data which may be

relevant to any claim or defense in this litigation.


                                      PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Sabrina Taylor demands judgment against Defendants, jointly

and severally, in an amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, punitive damages,




                                                   20
      Case 2:25-cv-05744-KSM           Document 1       Filed 10/06/25      Page 21 of 21




equitable damages, liquidated damages, statutory damages, attorney’s fees, costs, and

disbursement of action; and for such other relief as the Court deems equitable, just, and proper.




                                             Respectfully submitted,

Dated: October 6, 2025                       DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
                                             /s/ Timothy J. Prol
                                             TIMOTHY J. PROL, ESQ.
                                             PA Attorney ID: 319524
                                             NJ Attorney ID: 125782014
                                             1628 Pine Street
                                             Philadelphia, PA 19103
                                             Phone: 215-391-4790
                                             Fax: 215-893-5288
                                             Email: tim@dereksmithlaw.com
                                             Attorneys for Plaintiff, Sabrina Taylor




                                                21
