Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/71233814/1/mcgarry-v-chester-valley-golf-club/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in MCGARRY v. CHESTER VALLEY GOLF CLUB (E.D. Pa., 2:25-cv-04996) – CourtListener.com

          Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1        Filed 08/29/25      Page 1 of 28




DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
TIMOTHY J. PROL, ESQ.
PA Attorney ID: 319524
NJ Attorney ID: 125782014
1628 Pine Street
Philadelphia, PA 19103
Phone: 215-391-4790
Fax: 215-893-5288
Email: tim@dereksmithlaw.com
Attorneys for Plaintiff, Kathleen McGarry

                 IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
             FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA
                                  :
KATHLEEN MCGARRY                  :
                                  :
                        Plaintiff :
      v.                          :
                                  :   Civil Action No.
CHESTER VALLEY GOLF CLUB,         :
JORDAN POZNICK (individually),    :
and EDWARD ELLIS (individually)   :
                                  :
                    Defendants    :   Jury Trial Demanded

                                CIVIL ACTION COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Kathleen McGarry, by and through undersigned counsel, hereby files this Civil

Action Complaint against Defendants Chester Valley Golf Club, Jordan Poznick, and Ed Ellis

(collectively “Defendants”) and avers the following:

                                       NATURE OF CASE

1. Plaintiff complains pursuant to violations of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of

   1967 (“ADEA”), 29 U.S.C. § 621 et seq., the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e

   et. seq. (“Title VII”), and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (“PHRA”), 43 P.S. § 951, et.

   seq., and seeks damages to redress the injuries Plaintiff has suffered as a result of being subject

   to discrimination, retaliation, and wrongful termination by the aforementioned Defendants.

                                                 1
          Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1      Filed 08/29/25      Page 2 of 28




2. Furthermore, this action is to redress the Defendants’ unlawful employment practices against

   Plaintiff, including Defendants’ unlawful discrimination against Plaintiff because of her race

   and for Defendants’ wrongful actions against Plaintiff leading up to, and including, her

   unlawful constructive discharge.

3. Plaintiff seeks declaratory and injunctive relief, actual damages, compensatory damages,

   punitive damages, reinstatement of attorneys’ fees, litigation costs, and pre- and post- judgment

   interest as remedies for Defendants’ violations of his rights.


                                            PARTIES

4. Plaintiff, Kathleen McGarry (hereinafter referred to as “Plaintiff”), is a female individual who

   is sixty-nine (69) years of age and resides in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

5. Defendant, Chester Valley Golf Club (hereinafter referred to as “Defendant Chester Valley”),

   is a golf club located in Pennsylvania at 430 Swedesford Road, Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355.

6. The Chester Valley Golf Club is freely available to the public for a host of activities, events,

   and uses, including group golf outings, weddings, private events, and others.

7. In addition to serving members (while advertising to the public to inquire about membership),

   Defendant Chester Valley is open to members of the public for weddings, private events,

   catering,      and      other      publicly-available       commercial       services.      (See

   https://www.chestervalleygc.org/weddings-private-events, where the phrase “Chester Valley

   Golf Club hosts special occasions for members and non-members alike,” appears).

8. While Defendant Chester Valley indicates that membership is available only by invitation,

   there are several solicitations to the public to apply for membership consideration. (See, e.g,

   https://www.chestervalleygc.org/membership).



                                                 2
             Case 2:25-cv-04996       Document 1         Filed 08/29/25    Page 3 of 28




9. Defendant Chester Valley also advertises directly to the public for golf outings and membership

   is   not    required   to   host   a   golf   event   at   Chester   Valley   Golf   Club.   (See

   https://www.chestervalleygc.org/golf/host-an-outing).

10. In fact, each page of Defendant Chester Valley's website advertises to the public to inquire

   more regarding membership and events available at Chester Valley Golf Club. (See e.g.

   https://www.chestervalleygc.org/pool-racquets). Defendant, Jordan Poznick (hereinafter

   referred to as “Defendant Poznick”), is an employee of Defendant Chester Valley, employed

   as the General Manager of Chester Valley Golf Club.

11. Defendant, Ed Ellis (hereinafter referred to as “Defendant Ellis”), is a male individual

   employed by Defendant Chester Valley during all relevant times pertaining to this action.

12. At all times material, Defendant Ellis maintained supervisory authority over Plaintiff.

13. Defendant, Jordan Poznick (hereinafter referred to as “Defendant Poznick”), is a male

   individual employed by Defendant Chester Valley during all relevant times pertaining to this

   action.

14. At all times material, Defendant Poznick maintained supervisory authority over Plaintiff.



                                 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

15. This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this matter as it involves a Federal Question,

   28 U.S.C. §1331, and the Court maintains supplemental jurisdiction, 28 U.S.C. §1367, over

   the state law causes of action.

16. Venue is appropriate before this Court as all parties reside in the Eastern District of

   Pennsylvania and all actions and omissions giving rise to this litigation occurred in the Eastern




                                                  3
          Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1        Filed 08/29/25     Page 4 of 28




   District of Pennsylvania (i.e., Berks, Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Lancaster, Lehigh,

   Montgomery, Northampton, and Philadelphia).

17. Furthermore, Plaintiff has exhausted administrative remedies by having filed a timely Charge

   of Discrimination with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the

   Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”), and Plaintiff having received a Notice

   of Right to Sue.

                                      MATERIAL FACTS

18. Plaintiff Kathleen McGarry is a 69-year-old woman with decades of experience in financial

   management.

19. In July 2022, Defendant Chester Valley hired Plaintiff as its Controller.

20. Almost immediately after Plaintiff began working at Defendant Chester Valley, she was

   subjected to demeaning comments about her age and gender from the Club’s management.

21. Defendant Ed Ellis, one of Plaintiff’s supervisors, belittled her with snide remarks such as

   asking, “Do you even know how to read?”

22. On another occasion, Defendant Ellis scoffed at Plaintiff, “Who do you think you are, Mother

   Superior?”

23. Ellis’ remark was dripping with condescension toward Plaintiff as an older woman.

24. Ashley Heath, another high-level employee working for Defendant Chester Valley who worked

   closely with Defendant Poznick, also targeted Plaintiff with disparaging age-based comments.

25. Heath repeatedly mocked Plaintiff by calling her “grandmom” and “old lady” in the workplace.

26. On at least one occasion, Heath even stuck out her tongue at Plaintiff while sneering those

   insults, exemplifying the disrespect Plaintiff faced because of her age.




                                                 4
          Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1       Filed 08/29/25      Page 5 of 28




27. These frequent insults were offensive, unwarranted, and they contributed to a hostile work

   environment for Plaintiff.

28. The workplace culture at Defendant Chester Valley was coarse and abusive, with profanities

   and degrading comments often aimed at Plaintiff as an older woman.

29. Plaintiff did not passively endure this mistreatment; instead, she repeatedly reported the

   discriminatory and harassing behavior to Defendant Chester Valley’s leadership.

30. Plaintiff reported the age-based discrimination to Defendant Poznick about February 2022.

31. Plaintiff specifically informed Poznick of Ellis’s demeaning comments, hoping that the Club’s

   top management would put a stop to the misconduct.

32. Instead of addressing the issue, Defendant Chester Valley took no action in response to

   Plaintiff’s complaint

33. Defendant Poznick essentially ignored Plaintiff, and the harassment by Ellis and Heath

   continued unabated.

34. Not long after this initial complaint, during Plaintiff’s annual performance review in mid-2023,

   Poznick criticized her for not being “more motherly”

35. This comment further reflected Defendant Poznick’s biased view of an older woman in the

   workplace.

36. Meanwhile, Ms. Heath continued to brazenly hurl age-based epithets at Plaintiff, unchecked

   by any supervisor or corrective measures.

37. By the summer of 2023, Plaintiff’s work environment remained intolerably hostile, and she

   again pleaded for help from Defendant Chester Valley’s management.




                                                 5
            Case 2:25-cv-04996        Document 1         Filed 08/29/25      Page 6 of 28




38. On or about July 27, 2023, Plaintiff met with Defendant Poznick and Cameron Burrell (another

    senior manager) to discuss her ongoing mistreatment and to clarify her responsibilities at the

    Club.

39. During this meeting, Plaintiff described in detail the harassment she was facing – including

    that Ms. Heath was calling her “Grandmom” and “Old Lady” and had even stuck her tongue

    out at Plaintiff.

40. Plaintiff emphasized to Defendant Poznick and Ms. Burrell that these actions were creating a

    toxic, hostile work environment for her.

41. Once again, however, her complaints were brushed aside.

42. Defendant Poznick and Ms. Burrell dismissed Plaintiff’s concerns and took no action to curb

    the abuse.

43. By ignoring Plaintiff’s reports and trivializing her grievances, Defendant Chester Valley’s

    leadership effectively gave Ellis, Heath, and others a green light to continue targeting Plaintiff

    on the basis of her age and gender.

44. Around early fall 2023, Plaintiff witnessed Defendant Chester Valley’s discriminatory

    approach to hiring older employees firsthand.

45. During a hiring discussion, Plaintiff overheard Defendant Poznick and Ms. Heath casually

    rejecting multiple job candidates as “too old,” without any consideration of their qualifications.

46. This blatant age bias in hiring reinforced Plaintiff’s realization that the discrimination she faced

    was part of a broader, Club-sanctioned pattern of prejudice against older individuals.

47. In early February 2024, Plaintiff learned that she herself was now squarely in the crosshairs of

    Defendants’ discriminatory scheme.




                                                   6
           Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1      Filed 08/29/25      Page 7 of 28




48. Plaintiff overheard Defendants Poznick and Ellis having a conversation in which they plotted

   to terminate Plaintiff’s employment as soon as she finished the ongoing financial audits.

49. At the time, Plaintiff was working tirelessly to straighten out Defendant Chester Valley’s

   finances, having inherited two years of incomplete audits (for 2021 and 2022) caused by the

   Club’s prior mismanagement.

50. Thanks to Plaintiff’s expertise and diligence, the Club’s previously disorganized accounts were

   finally being brought into order.

51. There had been no complaints whatsoever about Plaintiff’s job performance, on the contrary,

   she was resolving longstanding financial problems that predated her tenure.

52. Yet, due to their age and gender-based animus against Plaintiff, Defendants Poznick and Ellis

   were actively scheming to get rid of Plaintiff the moment they had reaped the benefit of her

   work.

53. Plaintiff was shocked and alarmed to discover that her superiors intended to oust her despite

   her strong performance and significant contributions to the Club.

54. It was immediately clear that this decision had nothing to do with any legitimate performance

   issue on Plaintiff’s part and had everything to do with the sustained age-based harassment and

   discrimination Plaintiff was enduring.

55. Plaintiff understood that Defendants wanted her gone because she was an older woman who

   had dared to complain about their discriminatory conduct.

56. On April 26, 2024, Defendants followed through on their plan and abruptly terminated

   Plaintiff’s employment at Defendant Chester Valley.

57. By that date, Plaintiff had successfully completed the critical financial audit projects that she

   was tasked to perform.


                                                 7
           Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1       Filed 08/29/25      Page 8 of 28




58. Plaintiff’s role in rectifying the accounts was vital to Defendant Chester Valley.

59. No official reason for Plaintiff’s termination was given by Defendants, a sham masking the

   true discriminatory motives behind her termination.

60. In reality, Defendants terminated Plaintiff because she was an older woman and because she

   stood up against workplace discrimination.

61. Each of the individual Defendants played a role in the unlawful treatment that Plaintiff

   endured.

62. Defendant Ellis and Ms. Heath were the primary instigators of the harassment, repeatedly

   subjecting Plaintiff to offensive ageist and sexist slurs.

63. Defendant Poznick and Ms. Burrell, as the highest-ranking managers, knew about this ongoing

   misconduct and willfully refused to stop it.

64. Instead of protecting their employee, Poznick and Burrell effectively endorsed the

   mistreatment, dismissing Plaintiff’s valid complaints and later colluding in the decision to

   terminate her because of her membership in protected classes on a pretext.

65. By their actions and inactions, each individual Defendant effectively aided and abetted the

   discrimination, hostile work environment, and retaliation that ultimately forced Plaintiff out of

   her job at Defendant Chester Valley.

66. Plaintiff’s age and gender was determinative of, or a contributing factor in, Plaintiff’s

   termination by Defendants.

67. But for Plaintiff's age and/or gender, Plaintiff would not have incurred the adverse employment

   actions to which she was subjected at the hands of Defendants.

68. Plaintiff suffered intentional discrimination at the hands of Defendants because of her age and

   gender.


                                                  8
          Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1        Filed 08/29/25      Page 9 of 28




69. Plaintiff endured this intentional discrimination over a sustained period of time.

70. Defendant Poznick made negative comments to Plaintiff, took hostile actions toward plaintiff,

   and detrimentally impacted Plaintiff's terms and conditions of employment.

71. Plaintiff perceived these actions by Defendant Poznick as hostile, abusive, and they were

   unwelcome by Plaintiff.

72. Plaintiff was humiliated by the continual onslaught of Defendant Poznick's adverse actions in

   the workplace.

73. Defendant Poznick's actions directly and unreasonably interfered with Plaintiff's work

   performance, which brough further discriminatory action by Defendant Poznick.

74. Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club is responsible for the actions of Defendant Poznick and

   Defendant Ellis, who were employed by Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club and who worked

   in a supervisory capacity over Plaintiff.

75. Plaintiff trusted her employer, Defendant Chester Valley, to ensure a work environment free

   from age and gender harassment and to protect her from same.

76. As a result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiff felt extremely humiliated, degraded, victimized,

   embarrassed and emotionally distressed.

77. As a result of the acts and conduct complained of herein, Plaintiff has suffered and the loss of

   income, the loss of salary, bonuses, benefits and other compensation which such employment

   entails, and Plaintiff also suffered future pecuniary losses, emotional pain, humiliation,

   suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.

78. Plaintiff has further experienced severe emotional and physical distress.

79. As a result of Defendants' conduct, the Plaintiff was caused to sustain serious and permanent

   personal injuries, including but not limited to permanent psychological injuries.


                                                 9
          Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1     Filed 08/29/25      Page 10 of 28




80. As Defendants' conduct has been malicious, willful, outrageous, and conducted with full

   knowledge of the law, Plaintiff demands Punitive Damages against all the Defendants jointly

   and severally.

81. Plaintiff further claims aggravation, activation and/or exacerbation of any preexisting

   condition.

82. Plaintiff claims that Defendants unlawfully discriminated against Plaintiff because of

   Plaintiff’s age and sex and retaliated against Plaintiff because of her opposition to harassment

   and discrimination, engaging in protected activities, and because Plaintiff opposed the

   unlawful conduct of Defendants related to the above protected classes.

83. The above are just some examples of some of the discrimination and retaliation to which

   Defendants subjected Plaintiff to on a continuous and on-going basis throughout Plaintiff’s

   employment.

84. The Defendants have exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination but also

   retaliation.

85. Plaintiff claims alternatively that Plaintiff is an Independent Contractor, and Plaintiff makes

   all applicable claims for the above conduct and facts under the applicable law pertaining to

   Independent Contractors. Furthermore, in such case, Plaintiff claims that Defendant owed and

   breached its duty to Plaintiff to prevent the harassment, discrimination, and retaliation and is

   liable therefore for negligence.

86. Plaintiff claims a continuous practice of discrimination and claims a continuing violation and

   makes all claims herein under the continuing violations doctrine.




                                                10
          Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1      Filed 08/29/25      Page 11 of 28




                                          CAUSES OF ACTION

                                             COUNT I
                                          29 U.S.C. § 623
                                    ADEA Age Discrimination
                        (Plaintiff v. Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club)

87. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint as

   if fully set forth herein at length.

88. The ADEA provides, in relevant part, that “it shall be unlawful for an employer… to fail or

   refuse to hire or to discharge any individual or otherwise discriminate against any individual

   with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, and privileges of employment, because of

   such individual’s age.” 29 U.S.C. § 623(a)(1).

89. "The burden of establishing a prima facie case of disparate treatment is not onerous." Day v.

   Sears, No. 12-cv-6474, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 5568, at *12 (E.D. Pa. Jan. 15, 2014), quoting

   Burdine, 450 U.S. at 253-54.

90. At all times material, Plaintiff was in the protected age group and was 40 years old or older.

91. At all times material, Plaintiff was qualified for the position Plaintiff was working in for

   Defendants.

92. At all times material, Plaintiff performed satisfactory, even exemplary work.

93. At all times material, Plaintiff was treated differently and less favorably than younger

   employees.

94. Plaintiff was adversely affected by the adverse employment action of termination.

95. Defendants subjected Plaintiff to discriminatory treatment on the basis of Plaintiff’s age.

96. Defendants’ discriminatory treatment included, but was not limited to making age-related

   derogatory comments, giving preferential treatment to younger employees but not Plaintiff,

   ostracizing and excluding Plaintiff from meetings but not younger employees, hiring a younger

                                                 11
         Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1        Filed 08/29/25       Page 12 of 28




   individual to replace Plaintiff after terminating Plaintiff, and other age-related discriminatory

   actions.

97. Defendant targeted Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s age and no similarly situated employees

   under the age of 40 were subjected to the same discriminatory treatment that Plaintiff was

   subjected to.

98. The discriminatory actions of Defendants against Plaintiff, as described and set forth above,

   constitute an adverse employment action for the purposes of the ADEA.

99. In subjecting Plaintiff to adverse employment actions, Defendants intentionally discriminated

   against Plaintiff with respect to the compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of Plaintiff’s

   employment.

100.   Defendants acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

101.   As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ intentional discriminatory conduct in

   violation of the ADEA, Plaintiff has suffered and will continue to suffer financial and economic

   damages in the form of lost wages (front and back pay) and lost benefits.

102.   Plaintiff has also suffered and will continue to suffer emotional distress, mental anguish,

   loss of dignity, and other intangible damages. Plaintiff accordingly demands lost economic

   damages, lost wages, back pay, interest, front pay, the value and/or economic impact of lost

   benefits, and compensatory damages.

103.   The conduct of the Defendant deprived Plaintiff of Plaintiff’s statutory rights guaranteed

   under the ADEA.

104.   Plaintiff further requests that Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs be awarded as permitted

   by law.




                                                 12
         Case 2:25-cv-04996           Document 1      Filed 08/29/25      Page 13 of 28




                                            COUNT II
                       Hostile Work Environment in Violation of ADEA
                                      29 U.S.C. § 621, et. seq.
                        (Plaintiff v. Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club)

105.   Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

106.   To prevail on a hostile work environment claim under the ADEA, a plaintiff must show:

   (1) he suffered intentional discrimination because of his age; (2) the harassment was severe or

   pervasive; (3) the harassment detrimentally affected him; (4) the harassment would

   detrimentally affect a reasonable person in that position; and (5) respondeat superior liability.

   Jensen v. Potter, 435 F.3d 444, 449 (3d Cir. 2006) (setting forth elements of hostile work

   environment claim under Title VII); Glanzman v. Metro. Mgmt. Corp., 290 F. Supp. 2d 571,

   581 (E.D. Pa. 2003) (applying elements to ADEA hostile work environment claim). The

   alleged harassment "must be so severe or pervasive that it alters the conditions of the

   [plaintiff's] employment and creates an abusive environment." Weston v. Pa., 251 F.3d 420,

   426 (3d Cir. 2001).

107.   Defendants intentionally discriminated against Plaintiff in the terms and conditions of

   Plaintiff’s employment on the basis of Plaintiff’s age.

108.   Defendant Chester Valley delegated to Defendants Poznick and Ellis the authority to

   control Plaintiff’s work environment, and they abused that authority to create a hostile work

   environment.

109.   The conduct of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and

   other Chester Valley employees was sufficiently severe to alter the conditions of Plaintiff’s

   employment.




                                                13
         Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1        Filed 08/29/25       Page 14 of 28




110.    The conduct of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and

   other Chester Valley employees was sufficiently severe to create an abusive working

   environment.

111.   At all times material, Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis,

   and other Chester Valley employees’ intentional, discrimination based on Plaintiff’s age was

   not welcomed by Plaintiff.

112.   At all times material, the intentional, discrimination based on Plaintiff’s age by Defendant

   Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and other Chester Valley employees

   was so severe or pervasive that a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position would find Plaintiff’s

   work environment to be hostile or abusive.

113.   At all times material, Plaintiff believed Plaintiff’s work environment to be hostile or

   abusive as a result of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and

   other Chester Valley employees’ discriminatory conduct on the basis of Plaintiff’s age.

114.   The hostile work environment alleged herein was so extreme that it resulted in material

   changes to the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment.

115.   Defendant Chester Valley provided a futile avenue for complaint.

116.   Defendant Chester Valley retaliated against Plaintiff for Plaintiff’s complaints.

117.   Defendant Chester Valley acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

118.   Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and other Chester

   Valley employees’ unlawful actions towards Plaintiff was intentional, willful, and made with

   reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

119.   As a result of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and other

   Chester Valley employees’ violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including,


                                                 14
         Case 2:25-cv-04996           Document 1      Filed 08/29/25      Page 15 of 28




   but not limited to past and future lost wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental

   anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm,

   diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible and intangible.

120.   Plaintiff further requests that Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs be awarded as permitted

   by law.



                                           COUNT III
                                        ADEA Retaliation
                                        29 U.S.C. § 623(d)
                        (Plaintiff v. Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club)

121.   Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

122.   The ADEA provides, in relevant part, provides: It shall be unlawful for an employer to

   discriminate against any of his employees or applicants for employment, for an employment

   agency to discriminate against any individual, or for a labor organization to discriminate

   against any member thereof or applicant for membership, because such individual, member or

   applicant for membership has opposed any practice made unlawful by this section, or because

   such individual, member or applicant for membership has made a charge, testified, assisted, or

   participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or litigation under this chapter. 29

   U.S.C. § 623(d).

123.   As alleged herein, Plaintiff engaged in protected activity under the ADEA including, but

   not limited to opposing Defendants’ unlawful discriminatory employment practices by

   registering multiple complaints about same to management for Defendant Chester Valley.




                                                15
         Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1         Filed 08/29/25    Page 16 of 28




124.   At all times material, Plaintiff acted under a reasonable, good-faith belief that Plaintiff’s

   right to be free from discrimination in the workplace was being violated by Defendants’

   conduct.

125.   Defendants subjected Plaintiff to materially adverse employment actions subsequent to

   Plaintiff reporting discriminatory conduct, culminating in Defendant’s termination of

   Plaintiff’s employment.

126.   At all times material, Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity was a determinative and/or

   contributing factor in some or all of Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff.

127.   At all times material, Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity was the but-for cause of some

   or all of Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff.

128.   The temporal proximity between Plaintiff’s protected activity and Defendants’ decision to

   take materially adverse action against Plaintiff as well as the constant and sustained hostility

   and discrimination Plaintiff experienced and endured is unusually suggestive of a retaliatory

   motive and gives rise to an inference of causation.

129.   Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff in retaliation for Plaintiff’s

   protected opposition activity were intentional, willful, and made with reckless indifference to

   Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

130.   Defendants’ actions to take materially adverse employment actions against Plaintiff in

   retaliation for Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity are unlawful employment practices in

   violation of the ADEA.

131.   Defendants are vicariously liable for the unlawful actions of its employees or agents against

   Plaintiff in the course and scope of their employment with Defendants, including Defendants

   Poznick and Ellis.


                                                   16
         Case 2:25-cv-04996           Document 1      Filed 08/29/25       Page 17 of 28




132.   Defendants acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

133.   As a result of Defendants’ retaliatory conduct in violation of the ADEA, Plaintiff has

   suffered and continues to suffer emotional and financial harm.

134.   The conduct of the Defendants deprived Plaintiff of Plaintiff’s statutory rights guaranteed

   under the ADEA.

135.   As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s intentional discriminatory conduct in

   violation of the ADEA, Plaintiff has suffered and will continue to suffer financial and economic

   damages in the form of lost wages (front and back pay) and lost benefits.

136.   Plaintiff has also suffered and will continue to suffer emotional distress, mental anguish,

   loss of dignity, and other intangible damages. Plaintiff accordingly demands lost economic

   damages, lost wages, back pay, interest, front pay, the value and/or economic impact of lost

   benefits, and compensatory damages.

137.   Alternatively, Defendants’ actions were motivated by the foregoing discrimination and thus

   Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under the mixed-motive theory of liability.

138.   Plaintiff further requests that Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs be awarded as permitted

   by law.

                                           COUNT IV
                    Disparate Treatment Sex Discrimination in Violation of
              Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq.
                        (Plaintiff v. Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club)

139.   Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

140.   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2 provides in relevant part:

        a.     “It shall be unlawful employment practice for an employer (1) to fail or refuse to
hire or discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any individual with respect
to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such individual’s

                                                 17
          Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1       Filed 08/29/25      Page 18 of 28




race, color, religion, sex, or national origin; or (2) limit, segregate, or classify his employees or
applicants for employment in any wat which would deprive or tend to deprive any individual of
employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his status as an employee, because of such
individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.”


       42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2
141.   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(d) further provides that “it

   shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer… controlling… training or

   retraining, including on-the-job training programs to discriminate against any individual

   because of his race, color, religion, sex, or national origin in admission to, or employment in,

   any program established to provide training.”

142.   Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by Title VII by

   intentionally discriminating against Plaintiff with respect to Plaintiff’s compensation, terms,

   conditions, training, and privileges of employment because of Plaintiff’s sex.

143.   Defendants subjected Plaintiff to adverse tangible employment actions, defined as

   significant changes in Plaintiff’s employment status, discipline, denial of training, failure to

   promote, reassignment with significantly different job responsibilities, and decisions causing

   significant changes in his employment benefits.

144.   At all times material, Plaintiff was and is a woman.

145.   At all times material, Defendants had knowledge of Plaintiff’s sex.

146.   At all times material, Defendants held supervisory authority over Plaintiff with respect to

   Plaintiff’s employment.

147.   At all times material, Defendant Chester Valley authorized Plaintiff’s supervisors,

   including the individual Defendants Poznick and Ellis, to take tangible employment action

   against Plaintiff as employees of Defendant Chester Valley.



                                                 18
         Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1        Filed 08/29/25      Page 19 of 28




148.   As alleged herein, Defendants intentionally discriminated against Plaintiff with regard to

   the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment on the basis Plaintiff’s membership in one

   or more protected classes.

149.   At all times material, Defendants’ discriminatory conduct was not welcomed by Plaintiff.

150.   At all times material, Defendants’ conduct towards Plaintiff was intentionally based upon

   Plaintiff’s membership in one or more protected classes.

151.   At all times material, Plaintiff membership in one or more protected classes were

   motivating and/or determinative factors in Defendants’ discriminatory conduct.

152.   Defendants cannot show any legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons for its employment

   practices and any reasons proffered by Defendants for their actions against Plaintiff are

   pretextual.

153.   As alleged herein, Defendants’ discriminatory and harassing actions towards Plaintiff

   because of Plaintiff’s membership in one or more protected classes are unlawful employment

   practices in violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

154.   Defendants’ unlawful employment actions towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and

   made with reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

155.   Defendants acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

156.   Defendant Chester Valley is vicariously liable for the unlawful employment actions by

   Defendants Poznick and Ellis against Plaintiff in the course and scope of Plaintiff’s

   employment with Defendant Chester Valley.

157.   As a result of Defendants’ unlawful discrimination in violation of Title VII, Plaintiff has

   suffered and continues to suffer physical, emotional, and financial harm.




                                                19
         Case 2:25-cv-04996           Document 1       Filed 08/29/25       Page 20 of 28




158.   Defendants’ unlawful actions towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with

   reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

159.   As a result of Defendants’ violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including,

   but not limited to past and future lost wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental

   anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm,

   diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible and intangible.

160.   Plaintiff further requests that Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs be awarded as permitted

   by law.


                                           COUNT V
                          Hostile Work Environment in Violation of
              Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq
                       (Plaintiff v. Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club)

161.   Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

162.   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2 provides in relevant part:

       b.      “It shall be unlawful employment practice for an employer (1) to fail or
       refuse to hire or discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any
       individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of
       employment, because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national
       origin; or (2) limit, segregate, or classify his employees or applicants for
       employment in any wat which would deprive or tend to deprive any individual of
       employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his status as an employee,
       because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.”

       42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2

163.   Title VII also prohibits hostile work environment harassment, defined as unwanted

   comments or conduct regarding the Plaintiff’s protected characteristics that have the purpose

   or effect of unreasonably interfering with the terms and conditions of the Plaintiff’s

   employment. Harris v. Forklift Systems, 510 U.S. 17, 21 (1993).


                                                 20
         Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1       Filed 08/29/25    Page 21 of 28




164.   Defendants intentionally discriminated against Plaintiff in the terms and conditions of

   Plaintiff’s employment on the basis of Plaintiff’s sex.

165.   Defendant Chester Valley delegated to Defendants Poznick and Ellis the authority to

   control Plaintiff’s work environment, and they abused that authority to create a hostile work

   environment.

166.   The conduct of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and

   other Chester Valley employees was sufficiently severe to alter the conditions of Plaintiff’s

   employment.

167.    The conduct of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and

   other Chester Valley employees was sufficiently severe to create an abusive working

   environment.

168.   At all times material, Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis,

   and other Chester Valley employees’ intentional, discrimination based on Plaintiff’s sex was

   not welcomed by Plaintiff.

169.   At all times material, the intentional, discrimination based on Plaintiff’s sex and gender

   identity by Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and other

   Chester Valley employees was so severe or pervasive that a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s

   position would find Plaintiff’s work environment to be hostile or abusive.

170.   At all times material, Plaintiff believed Plaintiff’s work environment to be hostile or

   abusive as a result of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and

   other Chester Valley employees’ discriminatory conduct on the basis of Plaintiff’s sex.

171.   The hostile work environment alleged herein was so extreme that it resulted in material

   changes to the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment.


                                                21
         Case 2:25-cv-04996           Document 1       Filed 08/29/25       Page 22 of 28




172.   Defendant Chester Valley provided a futile avenue for complaint.

173.   Defendant Chester Valley retaliated against Plaintiff for his complaints.

174.   Defendant Chester Valley acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

175.   Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and other Chester

   Valley employees’ unlawful actions towards Plaintiff was intentional, willful, and made with

   reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

176.   As a result of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and other

   Chester Valley employees’ violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including,

   but not limited to past and future lost wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental

   anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm,

   diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible and intangible.

177.   Plaintiff further requests that Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs be awarded as permitted

   by law.

                                          COUNT VI
                                   Retaliation in Violation of
              Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq.
                       (Plaintiff v. Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club)


178.   Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

179.   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3(a) provides that

   it shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer “(1) to . . . discriminate against

   any of his employees . . . because he has opposed any practice made an unlawful employment

   practice by this subchapter, or because he has made a charge, testified, assisted or participated

   in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this subchapter.”



                                                 22
         Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1         Filed 08/29/25    Page 23 of 28




180.   As alleged herein, Plaintiff engaged in protected activity under Title VII including, but not

   limited to opposing and reporting Defendants’ unlawful discriminatory employment practices.

181.   At all times material, Plaintiff acted under a reasonable, good-faith belief that Plaintiff’s

   right to be free from discrimination in the workplace was being violated by Defendants’

   conduct.

182.   Defendants subjected Plaintiff to materially adverse employment actions subsequent to

   Plaintiff reporting discriminatory conduct as enumerated herein.

183.   At all times material, Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity was a determinative or

   contributing factor in some or all of Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff.

184.   At all times material, Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity was the but-for cause of some

   or all of Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff.

185.   The temporal proximity between Plaintiff’s protected activity and Defendants’ decision to

   take materially adverse action against Plaintiff is unusually suggestive of a retaliatory motive

   and gives rise to an inference of causation.

186.   Defendants’ materially adverse actions against Plaintiff in retaliation for Plaintiff’s

   protected opposition activity were intentional, willful, and made with reckless indifference to

   Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

187.   Defendants’ actions to take materially adverse employment actions against Plaintiff in

   retaliation for Plaintiff’s protected opposition activity are unlawful employment practices in

   violation of Title VII.

188.   Defendants are vicariously liable for the unlawful actions of its employees or agents against

   Plaintiff in the course and scope of his employment with Defendants.




                                                   23
           Case 2:25-cv-04996         Document 1       Filed 08/29/25       Page 24 of 28




189.   As a result of Defendants’ retaliatory conduct in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights

   Act of 1964, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer physical, emotional, and financial

   harm.

190.   Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and other Chester

   Valley employees’ unlawful actions towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with

   reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights.

191.   As a result of Defendant Chester Valley, Defendant Poznick and Defendant Ellis, and other

   Chester Valley employees’ violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including,

   but not limited to past and future lost wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental

   anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm,

   diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible and intangible.

192.   Plaintiff further requests that Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs be awarded as permitted

   by law.


                                          COUNT VII
                          Age Discrimination, Sex Discrimination,
                 Hostile Work Environment, and Retaliation in Violation of
              Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (PHRA), 43 P.S. § 955, et. seq.
                       (Plaintiff v. Defendant Chester Valley Golf Club)

244.   Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

   as if fully set forth herein at length.

245. The PHRA § 955 provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice:

       (b) For any employer because of the race, color, religious creed, ancestry, age, sex,
       national origin or non-job related handicap or disability or the use of a guide or
       support animal because of blindness, deafness or physical handicap of any
       individual or independent contractor, to refuse to hire or employ or contract with,
       or to bar or to discharge from employment such individual or independent
       contractor, or to otherwise discriminate against such individual or impendent
       contractor with respect to compensation, hire, tenure, terms, conditions or
                                                 24
         Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1          Filed 08/29/25   Page 25 of 28




       privileges of employment or contract, if the individual or independent contractor is
       the best able and most competent to perform the service required.

PHRA § 955

246. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating against the

     Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s age, and/or sex.

247. Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all applicable paragraphs of PHRA

     § 955.

248. Defendant Chester Valley is an employer under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act

     (PHRA) as it employs citizens of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and also because

     Defendant resides in the Commonwealth.

249. Plaintiff is entitled to the protections of the PHRA as she is an employee who is a member

     of a protected class by virtue of Plaintiff’s age, and/or sex.

250. Defendants subjected Plaintiff to a harassing, hostile work environment, and disparately

     treated Plaintiff based on Plaintiff’s membership to one or more protected classes, namely

     age and sex.

251. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ discrimination, harassment, and retaliation,

     Plaintiff has suffered loss of wages, including loss of back pay, loss of front pay, loss of

     amenities of employment and out of pocket expenses, emotional damages, pain and suffering,

     alienation, loss of reputation, and other similar damages and harms, all to Plaintiff’s great

     detriment.

252. Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees and all other damages available at law pursuant to the PHRA

     and Plaintiff seeks same.




                                                 25
          Case 2:25-cv-04996          Document 1     Filed 08/29/25      Page 26 of 28




253. Alternatively, Defendants’ actions were motivated by the foregoing discriminatory animus

     towards Plaintiff. Therefore, Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under the mixed-motive

     theory of liability.

254. Defendants’ unlawful actions towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with

     reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s protected civil rights under PHRA.


                                         COUNT VIII
                                     Aiding and Abetting
              Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (PHRA), 43 P.S. § 951, et. seq.
                         (Plaintiff v. Defendants Ponzick and Ellis)

255. Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

     as if fully set forth herein at length.

256. PHRA § 955(e) provides that it shall be unlawful discriminatory practice:

           a. “For any person, employer, employment agency, labor organization or
              employee, to aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce the doing of any act declared
              by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice, or to obstruct or
              prevent any person from complying with the provisions of this act or any
              order issued thereunder, or to attempt, directly or indirectly, to commit any
              act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice.”


PHRA § 955(e)


257. Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of PHRA § 955, the

     discriminatory conduct.

258. Defendants’ unlawful actions towards Plaintiff were intentional, willful, and made with

     reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s protected civil rights under PHRA.

259. Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees and all available damages under the Pennsylvania Human

     Relations Act.




                                                26
          Case 2:25-cv-04996              Document 1      Filed 08/29/25    Page 27 of 28




260. Alternatively, Defendants’ actions were motivated by the foregoing discrimination and thus

      Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under the mixed-motive theory of liability.

261. As a result of Defendants’ unlawful actions, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including, but

      not limited to past and future lost wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish,

      loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm, diminishment

      of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible and intangible.


                                            JURY DEMAND

        Plaintiff requests a jury trial on all issues to be tried.


                             DEMAND TO PRESERVE EVIDENCE

        The Defendants are hereby demanded to preserve all physical and electronic information

pertaining in any way to Plaintiff’s employment, to his potential claims, his claims to damages, to

any defenses to same, including, but not limited to electronic data storage, employment files, files,

memos, job descriptions, text messages, e-mails, spreadsheets, images, cache memory, payroll

records, paystubs, time records, timesheets, and any other information and/or data which may be

relevant to any claim or defense in this litigation.


                                          PRAYER FOR RELIEF

        Plaintiff repeats, incorporates by reference, and realleges every allegation in this Complaint

as if fully set forth herein at length.


        WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment against Defendants, jointly and severally, in

an amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, punitive damages to the extent

available, liquidated damages, statutory damages, attorney’s fees, costs, and disbursement of

action, and for such other relief as the Court deems just and proper.

                                                    27
         Case 2:25-cv-04996   Document 1   Filed 08/29/25    Page 28 of 28




                                           Respectfully submitted,

Date: August 29, 2025                      DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
                                           By: /s/ Timothy J. Prol, Esq.__
                                           Timothy J. Prol, Esq.
                                           1628 Pine Street
                                           Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
                                           Phone: (215) 391-4790
                                           tim@dereksmithlaw.com
                                           Attorneys for Plaintiff Kathleen McGarry




                                      28
