Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/70730968/1/kleinsmith-v-hughes-investment-lp/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in KLEINSMITH v. HUGHES INVESTMENT, LP (E.D. Pa., 2:25-cv-03475) – CourtListener.com

      Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1         Filed 07/08/25    Page 1 of 20




                 IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
              FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

ISAAC KLEINSMITH,                            :
  Plaintiff,                                 :        CIVIL ACTION NO. ____________
                                             :
                                             :        JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
               v.                            :
                                             :
HUGHES INVESTMENT, LP,                       :
 Defendant.                                  :

                                      COMPLAINT

       Plaintiff, Isaac Kleinsmith, by and his undersigned attorneys, Broughal & DeVito,

LLP, files this Complaint against Defendant Hughes Investment, LP and in support

thereof avers as follows:

                                        PARTIES

       1.      Plaintiff Isaac Kleinsmith (“Plaintiff” or “Kleinsmith”) is an adult

individual, age 30, who identifies as a gay male.

       2.      Defendant Hughes Investment, LP (“HI”) is a Pennsylvania limited

partnership that operates McDonald’s restaurants in Berks, Lehigh, and Schuylkill

Counties.

                            JURISDICTION AND VENUE

       3.      This Court has jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s federal claims pursuant to 28

U.S.C. § 1331, as this action arises under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42

U.S.C. § 2000e et seq.

       4.      This Court has supplemental jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s state law claims

pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1367.
          Case 2:25-cv-03475      Document 1        Filed 07/08/25     Page 2 of 20




          5.    Venue is proper in this Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b)(1)-(2), as a

substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claims occurred within this

District, and Defendants reside in this District.

                 EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

          6.    On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed EEOC Charge No. 530-2023-06999,

which was dual-filed with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (the “Original

Charge”).

          7.    Plaintiff received a right to sue letter from the EEOC and this Complaint is

filed less than 90 days after the right to sue letter was received.

          8.    More than 180 days have passed since the filing of the Original Charge,

and Plaintiff has exhausted his administrative remedies and is entitled to bring this civil

action.

                               FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

          9.    Plaintiff is a 30-year-old gay male who entered into a sexual and

cohabiting relationship with Defendant Robert Hughes (“Hughes”), owner of Hughes

Investment, LP, beginning in or around 2018.

          10.   Plaintiff was hired by Hughes Investment, LP (Defendant HI) on April 1,

2018, and was its Human Resources, Training, and Customer Care Supervisor, earning a

base salary of $73,000 per year with potential bonuses.

          11.   Plaintiff, Hughes, and Richard Wieder, Jr. (Vice President of Defendant

HI and Hughes’ long-time partner) were part of a sexual relationship referred to as a

'throuple'.

          12.   Plaintiff lived with Hughes and Wieder.
       Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1        Filed 07/08/25     Page 3 of 20




       13.     On February 18, 2023, the sexual relationship with Plaintiff ended and

Plaintiff moved out of Hughes’ home on or about March 2, 2023.

       14.     The following day Hughes told Plaintiff that he wanted the relationship to

continue and threatened to fire him if he did not return.

       15.     Plaintiff declined to return to the relationship or to Mr. Hughes’ home.

       16.     After ending the relationship, Plaintiff experienced escalating retaliation,

threats, and harassment from Hughes, including but not limited to threats of termination,

sexual comments, efforts to sabotage Plaintiff’s employment, and discriminatory and

retaliatory treatment as further detailed below.

       17.     Specific retaliatory, harassing, and discriminatory acts committed by

Hughes and other managerial agents of HI are numerous and include, without limitation:

               a.      Making unfounded allegations of insubordination and poor work

performance;

               b.      Sexually harassing Plaintiff Kleinsmith on multiple occasions,

begging him to come back to the throuple and making threats that he would not have a

job if Plaintiff Kleinsmith did not come back to the relationship;

               c.      Telling Plaintiff Kleinsmith that he will make it impossible for

Plaintiff Kleinsmith to continue to work at HI;

               d.      Hughes stating to Plaintiff Kleinsmith “you are abandoning your

family [referring to the throuple] just like your father;”

               e.      On July 20, 2023, Hughes told Plaintiff Kleinsmith that at a

McDonald’s meeting, he told another Owner/Operator that they would be unable to hire
       Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1       Filed 07/08/25      Page 4 of 20




Plaintiff Kleinsmith to prevent Plaintiff Kleinsmith from getting another job from another

McDonald’s Owner/Operator;

               f.      On one occasion where Plaintiff Kleinsmith attempted to address

Hughes’ threats, Hughes said, “Stop f***ing with me and the company on all your wants,

know the ranking you have selected to have in this company;”

               g.      Hughes threatening Plaintiff Kleinsmith with suspension for going

to Chicago for a prearranged work-related McDonald’s event (“Chicago Trip”) and

taking a previously approved request for two days off from work that had occurred 11 to

13 days before;

               h.      When Plaintiff Kleinsmith went on the Chicago Trip, Hughes said,

“Enjoy Friday night in Chicago. I am sure you will have “loads” (referring to semen) of

fun!” Hughes also said that Plaintiff Kleinsmith would be visiting hotel rooms in

Chicago and would “certainly find someone to wine, dine, and accommodate sleeping

arrangements;”

               i.      Refusing to acknowledge the Chicago Trip as a business trip and

refusing to reimburse Plaintiff Kleinsmith for flight travel, hotel, transportation and food

allowance, claiming that it was a “party trip” and telling Plaintiff Kleinsmith that he

would have to use his “holidays” for the days in Chicago;

               j.      Not permitting Plaintiff Kleinsmith to take more than two

consecutive days off of work when other employees were permitted to do so, to attempt

to control what Plaintiff Kleinsmith does on his personal time;
       Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1       Filed 07/08/25     Page 5 of 20




                k.      Threatening to deny Plaintiff Kleinsmith time off (paid or unpaid)

if Plaintiff Kleinsmith took time off from work to go to Florida to move his belongings

out of Hughes’ condominium;

                l.      Advising Plaintiff Kleinsmith that HI would not support a

McDonalds’s Owner/Operator Pride Network (MOOPN) event that the McDonald’s USA

brand was supporting because Plaintiff Kleinsmith was involved with the event;

                m.      Regularly attempting to engage Plaintiff Kleinsmith in

conversations regarding Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s sex life and sexual relationships, which

Hughes thinks that Plaintiff Kleinsmith is having with others;

                n.      Using HI’s payroll system to find out where Plaintiff Kleinsmith is

currently living and making comments such as: “You certainly advanced in life . . .

NOT,” “So, welcome back to lower/middle class,” “very, very small apartment you are

sharing;”

                o.      Threating to take away vacation time for the year even though as

of January 25, 2023, Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s job included “unlimited vacations” on the list

of benefits;

                p.      Reducing Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s holiday day because Plaintiff

Kleinsmith had a three-day weekend because Plaintiff Kleinsmith had an approved

request for this time off;

                q.      Withholding Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s bonuses and diverting money

from Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s bonus to pay himself back for personal trips that they had

originally planned together under the pretense that the personal trips were business trips;

and
       Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1       Filed 07/08/25       Page 6 of 20




               r.      Refusing to reimburse Plaintiff Kleinsmith for business expenses.

       18.     Following Defendant HI’s receipt of the Original EEOC Charge filed by

Plaintiff Kleinsmith on or about July 26, 2023, Defendant HI harassed and retaliated

against Plaintiff Kleinsmith for filing the Original Charge as follows:

               a.      On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff Kleinsmith was directed to work

only within Defendant’s Cedar Crest store as a Manager to do tasks that he was not

brought in to do. Cedar Crest is a store that failed a McDonald’s official visit that resulted

in two managers getting fired. Plaintiff Kleinsmith was advised that he was to be in

charge of the schedule and hiring at the store but he ultimately ended up having to open

and/or close multiple times per week and he was given very undesirable shifts with little

staff. Upon information and belief, this assignment was made in an attempt to make it

extremely uncomfortable for Plaintiff Kleinsmith to continue to work for HI to attempt to

force him to resign.

               b.      Repeated attempts to take back approved time off and change

Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s work schedule to make it extremely difficult for him to have a

personal life outside of work.

               c.      On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff Kleinsmith called out of work sick

with an ear and sinus infection. Plaintiff Kleinsmith spoke to Steve Ferraro, Director of

Operations (“Mr. Ferraro”). Mr. Ferraro responded, “feel better, get a doctor’s note.”

When Hughes found out that Plaintiff Kleinsmith called out sick, he said it was planned,

it would be viewed as insubordination and would be “addressed at future legal litigation.”

Mr. Ferraro later advised Plaintiff Kleinsmith that Hughes kept going on about him

calling out sick for the next couple of weeks.
       Case 2:25-cv-03475        Document 1       Filed 07/08/25      Page 7 of 20




                  d.   On January 23, 2024, Hughes advised Plaintiff Kleinsmith that he

would not be getting paid for four (4) holidays that he was owed from 2023, totaling

$1,076.80, which were holidays that Plaintiff Kleinsmith was unable to take off as he as

given a strict schedule of when he was able to take off and which days he would be

allowed to take off.

                  e.   Hughes has repeatedly falsely alleged to Mr. Ferraro that Plaintiff

Kleinsmith has performance issues.

                  f.   Hughes has attempted to revoke approved requests off from work

that Mr. Ferraro had already approved for Plaintiff Kleinsmith, including dates related to

a VACAYA cruise. Hughes had originally approved time off for the February VACAYA

cruise himself.

                  g.   Alleging that Plaintiff Kleinsmith was not adequately performing

his job by not participating in McDonald’s coop incentives and claiming that it was HR’s

job to involve HI when Hughes was the sole person in the company who received emails

about the incentives. HI’s Field Business Partner, Kelly Talento, confirmed that the

emails for most of the incentive programs go directly to Hughes as the Owner Operator

with no way to add anyone else to the mailing list.

                  h.   On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff Kleinsmith was sent a written notice

in regard to attendance for being 30 minutes late due to a major highway being closed on

his way to work. Other supervisors, who had not had sexual relations with Hughes, were

not given such written notices for tardiness under the same type of circumstances.
       Case 2:25-cv-03475        Document 1        Filed 07/08/25      Page 8 of 20




               i.      On February 5, 2024, Hughes started calling the stores where

Plaintiff Kleinsmith was scheduled as opposed to Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s cell phone to see

if Plaintiff Kleinsmith was where he was supposed to be, which is not a common practice

with other supervisors.

               j.      On February 23, 2024, Hughes took a photograph of Plaintiff

Kleinsmith in a jockstrap outfit at an event on a gay cruise.

               k.      On February 25, 2024, Hughes sent an email stating again that

there was a lack of leadership in response to HI not participating in incentives that he did

not inform Plaintiff Kleinsmith about.

               l.      On March 2, 2024, Plaintiff Kleinsmith asked Mr. Ferraro to look

at his salary as it had been a year since he received an increase. Mr. Ferraro said that no

one was getting raises as profit was down, however, other Supervisors, who had not had

sexual relations with Hughes, such as Anthony Carmelo, who received an increase in

November 2023; and Steve Ferraro, Josh Purcell and Paula Moser who all received

increases in February 2024. On May 24, 2024, Hughes and Ferraro informed Plaintiff

Kleinsmith that these increases were due to increased responsibilities in their individual

roles with the addition of the new store. Plaintiff Kleinsmith also had an increase in

responsibilities with the addition of the new store, but was not given an increase like the

other supervisors.

               m.      On September 4, 2023, Paylocity Salesperson John Sisto reached

out to Plaintiff Kleinsmith to inform him that Hughes saw his social media post about

going to the US Open with Paylocity as a potential vendor and asked if Mr. Sisto took
      Case 2:25-cv-03475           Document 1      Filed 07/08/25     Page 9 of 20




Plaintiff Kleinsmith to the event from a personal standpoint or a business standpoint.

Upon information and belief, Hughes does not have social media.

               n.        On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff Kleinsmith was given the task of

completing a Fraud audit for the 401(k) plan. Plaintiff Kleinsmith sent an email to Mr.

Ferraro letting him know that he felt uncomfortable completing this document knowing

that Erez Begerano was “employed” and that Mr. Ferraro was directed to fluctuate his

hours so it looked like he worked. Erez Begerano was not actually performing any work

for Hughes Investment.

               o.        On January 18, 2024, Mr. Ferraro informed Plaintiff Kleinsmith

that he would need permission to leave before 5 p.m. Mr. Ferraro tried to get Plaintiff

Kleinsmith to change two days that he worked 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. but Plaintiff

Kleinsmith was unable to as he needed to leave work at 4 p.m. for a flight and a show.

Plaintiff Kleinsmith was given direction that would prevent him from taking two days off

in a row, in response to Mr. Ferraro approving his request off to have a half day on Friday

and a day off on Saturday. Plaintiff Kleinsmith was given direction to use his remaining

5.5 holiday paid days off. Later Plaintiff Kleinsmith was informed that he lost the

holiday days from 2023. No other management employees were prohibited from taking

two days off in a row.

               p.        On January 29, 2024, during a conversation with Mr. Ferraro, Mr.

Ferraro mentioned that Hughes was stuck on Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s calling out sick the

previous week. Mr. Ferraro also mentioned that he would push back against Hughes

when he would make claims about Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s poor work performance as Mr.

Ferraro was happy with Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s work performance and that Plaintiff
      Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1       Filed 07/08/25      Page 10 of 20




Kleinsmith did not have any notice of performance issues other than the threats he

received from Hughes. Mr. Ferraro stated “I just know I’m going to get s**t for

approving that day” in response to his approval of Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s request to work

8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Valentine’s Day. The original schedule was 8:00 a.m. to 4:00

p.m. but Mr. Ferraro asked Plaintiff Kleinsmith to change it to 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. to

compromise.

               q.      On April 2, 2024, Hughes and Mr. Ferraro discussed the

McDonald’s Worldwide trip to Barcelona in the text chain with Charing Party

Kleinsmith. Plaintiff Kleinsmith was not a part of this conversation and Hughes talked

about all of the fun things that they were going to be doing in Barcelona to rub it in

Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s face.

               r.      On April 13, 2024, Plaintiff Kleinsmith asked Mr. Ferraro to

review his requests for time off through August because they were not looked at or

addressed. Plaintiff Kleinsmith submitted his requests for time off on February 25, 2024.

               s.      On May 16, 2024, Hughes questioned a company credit card

charge for Werner Lumber in the amount of $23.30. Mr. Ferraro replied that Werner

Lumber was a hardware store in Pine Grove which is where there is a store. Plaintiff

Kleinsmith was off this day but upon his return, he replied that it was for a clogged toilet,

stating that he only uses the company card for company expenses.

               t.      On June 12, 2024, Hughes began questioning Plaintiff Kleinsmith

about credit card charges for obvious business expenses. Hughes did not question other

management employees about their credit card charges.
      Case 2:25-cv-03475           Document 1     Filed 07/08/25      Page 11 of 20




               u.      On June 14, 2024, Hughes insisted that Plaintiff Kleinsmith send a

daily text on his days off saying “Off” to inform Hughes that Plaintiff Kleinsmith was not

working that day, even though Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s schedule had been submitted to his

supervisor for the entire month.

               v.      On June 14, 2024, Hughes continued to state that Plaintiff

Kleinsmith’s trip to McDonald’s Headquarters was not a business trip. He stated that

“You continue to try to be litigious every day while in our employment.” And “You

continually try to create negative issues in any way possible creating a hostile situation

against your employer trying to find an angle or opportunity to benefit you.” As an aside,

Plaintiff Kleinsmith was only informed that he would not be able to attend the

McDonald’s Headquarters meeting the day before. Plaintiff Kleinsmith believed that he

would have attended the meeting while planning the Chicago Trip.

               w.      On June 15, 2024, Hughes falsely claimed that Plaintiff Kleinsmith

was filling up his gas tank the day before going on vacation, which vacation was not until

June 19.

               x.      On July 1, 2024, Mr. Ferraro asked Plaintiff Kleinsmith to work on

July 4. Plaintiff Kleinsmith informed Mr. Ferraro that he had plans for July 4 and that he

had submitted a request off on February 25, 2024. Mr. Ferraro’s response was that he

could not approve a time off request five (5) months in advance, which never happened.

If it had happened, Plaintiff Kleinsmith would have asked when an acceptable window is

to put a request in and would have marked it down on a calendar and/or scheduled an

email with the request off. Plaintiff Kleinsmith also submitted his schedule for the week
        Case 2:25-cv-03475        Document 1      Filed 07/08/25      Page 12 of 20




of July 1 on June 26. Other time off requests made by Plaintiff Kleinsmith from March

through August were never approved.

               y.      On July 2, 2024, Mr. Ferraro continued to ask Plaintiff Kleinsmith

if he could work on July 4 to which Plaintiff Kleinsmith responded that he had plans to

be away on July 4. Plaintiff Kleinsmith had a call with Mr. Ferraro asking for direction

on his schedule for July 3 and 4. The only response he received was to not take his paid

day off that week.

               z.      On July 5, 2024, Mr. Ferraro took away Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s

ability to make his own schedule. Plaintiff Kleinsmith then needed to go to different

stores to administer exams and teach classes, as needed. Plaintiff Kleinsmith was

scheduled to work on the floor the entire month of July with undesirable shifts, which

were outside of the shifts both operation supervisors asked Plaintiff Kleinsmith to assist

them with. This made it difficult for Plaintiff Kleinsmith to get any work done besides

running positions on the floor.

               aa.     On July 8, 2024, Plaintiff Kleinsmith e-mailed Mr. Ferraro

inquiring why he was being punished and requested time to talk to discuss his position

and schedule. Plaintiff Kleinsmith received no answer and resent this email on July 22,

2024.

               bb.     On July 16, 2024, Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s daily text messages were

now classified as “clocking in,” even though Plaintiff Kleinsmith is salaried.

               cc.     On July 19, 2024, Mr. Ferraro came to the store Plaintiff

Kleinsmith was working at after Hughes said the service times “sucked.” When Mr.

Ferraro showed up with another supervisor, he began to go after Plaintiff Kleinsmith for
       Case 2:25-cv-03475        Document 1        Filed 07/08/25      Page 13 of 20




the poor performance of the store even though the store was missing 50% of the

scheduled hours that day and was severely short staffed.

               dd.     On July 23, 2024, Plaintiff Kleinsmith confronted Mr. Ferraro

about approving the Colorado Tech University (CTU) Letters of Credit (LOC) for their

employees. Mr. Ferraro said that he had approved all of them. Plaintiff Kleinsmith then

called Mr. Ferraro out and told him that he, in fact, did not as Plaintiff Kleinsmith was

still waiting on his LOC to be approved, which he submitted on July 3. This occurred on

the deadline date and the day that classes started for the session.

               ee.     On July 25, 2024, Mr. Ferraro texted Plaintiff Kleinsmith asking

him to send him his time off requests for August, which were already in his inbox. As

per the schedule that Mr. Ferraro made for Plaintiff Kleinsmith, he was not working that

day.

               ff.     On July 25, 2024, Hughes sent an email denying Kleinsmith’s

CTU LOC falsely stating Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s poor performance resulted in the denial

of his CTU LOC.

               gg.     On July 30, 2024, Hughes and Mr. Ferraro had a conversation with

Plaintiff Kleinsmith about his schedule and position in the company. Plaintiff Kleinsmith

stated that it was difficult to get any work done when he was scheduled outside of hours

that the stores perform administrative work and rely on Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s

assistance/direction. Plaintiff Kleinsmith also stated that none of his duties could be

completed when he is sent to work at a store for operations because there is not enough

staff most days to take him off the floor due to labor constraints and staffing issues.
      Case 2:25-cv-03475        Document 1       Filed 07/08/25      Page 14 of 20




               hh.    Hughes stated to Plaintiff Kleinsmith that he knew that another gay

owner operator couple had “wined and dined you, flew you out to California for an

interview” and you didn’t get the job. This was not any information that Plaintiff

Kleinsmith had given to him or anyone in the company. He also stated that two other

Owner Operators said that Plaintiff Kleinsmith was trouble and that they would not hire

him if he had applied within their organizations. Plaintiff Kleinsmith never tried to apply

with any other Owner Operators in the area.

               ii.    On July 30, 2024, Hughes suggested that Plaintiff Kleinsmith take

a look at how he was acting and performing in the company and to consider an attitude

and performance reset on himself.

               jj.    On August 1, 2024, Hughes claimed that Plaintiff Kleinsmith had

done nothing in his new customer service supervisor position. Plaintiff Kleinsmith

started working on addressing these issues, creating a tracking system to provide the

stores with live data, and gave direction to the store managers on the items they need to

focus on in order to start eliminating complaints by executing McDonald’s procedures as

designed. Plaintiff Kleinsmith also asked for items required so that he could take care of

items that Hughes wanted him to work on. These requests were ignored.

               kk.    On August 1, 2024, Hughes claimed that Plaintiff Kleinsmith had

ghosted the Director and President when he was off from work, or had addressed the

items that he was asked to work on. In July, Plaintiff Kleinsmith spent a majority of his

shifts running stores and covering managers and another supervisor in this supervisor’s

store. Plaintiff Kleinsmith had even taken an important Paylocity (new payroll) meeting
        Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1       Filed 07/08/25      Page 15 of 20




while running the floor. This resulted in little time to work on tasks or even review the

numerous emails he receives daily.

                  ll.    On August 4, 2024, Hughes invited the supervisor team to his

country club for lunch and a meeting. Supervisor Josh Purcell and Plaintiff Kleinsmith

were going on vacation that same day, August 5, and would not be able to attend.

Hughes sent out a text saying “Josh, I know you will be out on vacation. It’s a great

lunch overlooking pool and golf course as you know…” inviting him to join, but made no

mention of Plaintiff Kleinsmith and did not send him a text.

                  mm.    On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff Kleinsmith was forced to withdraw

from CTU as he was unable to attend classes for this session due to Hughes’ denying his

LOC. No other managers had their LOC denied and were unable to attend CTU.

         19.      Hughes has engaged in the above retaliatory conduct, he told Plaintiff

Kleinsmith that it will cease if Plaintiff Kleinsmith agrees to “go back to normal and

return to him.”

         20.      Hughes offered Plaintiff Kleinsmith material benefits to return to the

relationship, such as ownership in Defendant HI, to buy Plaintiff Kleinsmith a Tesla on

his birthday, $500,000 cash, full condominium ownership, and a return to a lavish

lifestyle.

         21.      The foregoing actions created a discriminatory workplace based on

Plaintiff Kleinsmith’s sexual orientation, hostile work environment, retaliation, and

materially altered Plaintiff’s employment, and caused Plaintiff emotional and financial

harm.
      Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1       Filed 07/08/25      Page 16 of 20




       22.     Employees of Defendant HI who were straight did not suffer similar

threats, working conditions, discipline, or harassing conduct

                                  COUNT I
    Sexual Harassment and Hostile Work Environment in Violation of Title VII


       23.     Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in Paragraphs 1

through 22 of this Complaint as they are fully set forth here.

       24.     Defendant subjected Plaintiff to severe and pervasive sexual harassment

based on sex and sexual orientation that unreasonably interfered with Plaintiff’s work

environment and altered the conditions of his employment.

       25.     The harassment included, but was not limited to:

               a.      Repeated sexual advances and coercive comments by Defendant’s

Owner/Operator, Hughes;

               b.      Retaliatory threats following the end of a sexual relationship with

Hughes;

               c.      Explicit sexual remarks and innuendo in workplace

communications;

               d.      Intrusive comments about Plaintiff’s personal life and sexual

orientation;

               e.      Conditioning material benefits or continued employment on

Plaintiff’s willingness to reengage in a sexual or romantic relationship with Hughes.

       26.     Defendant’s conduct created a hostile work environment that was both

objectively and subjectively offensive and abusive.
      Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1        Filed 07/08/25      Page 17 of 20




       27.     Defendant knew or should have known about the harassment and failed to

take prompt and effective remedial action.

       28.     As a direct and proximate result, Plaintiff suffered emotional distress, loss

of enjoyment of life, lost earnings, and other damages.

                                      COUNT II
        Discrimination in Violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964


       29.     Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in Paragraphs 1

through 28 of this Complaint as if they are fully set forth here.

       30.     Plaintiff is a member of a protected class under Title VII, as a gay male.

       31.     Plaintiff was qualified for his position and performed his job duties in a

satisfactory manner.

       32.     Plaintiff was subjected to disparate treatment and adverse employment

actions on the basis of his sex and sexual orientation, including but not limited to:

               a.      Reduction in benefits;

               b.      Withholding of bonuses and reimbursements;

               c.      Unfounded write-ups and discipline;

               d.      Denial of promotional opportunities and raises; and

               e.      Targeted scrutiny and micromanagement not applied to

heterosexual comparators.

       33.     Defendant treated similarly situated heterosexual employees more

favorably than Plaintiff under similar circumstances.
      Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1        Filed 07/08/25      Page 18 of 20




          34.   As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s discriminatory conduct,

Plaintiff suffered damages including emotional distress, loss of income, reputational

harm, and diminished career opportunities.

                                       COUNT III
                           Retaliation in Violation of Title VII


          35.   Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in Paragraphs 1

through 43 of this Complaint as if those paragraphs are fully set forth here.

          36.   Plaintiff engaged in protected activity under Title VII, including:

                a.     Terminating a coerced sexual relationship with a superior; and

                b.     Filing a Charge of Discrimination with the EEOC and PHRC on or

about July 26, 2023.

          37.   Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff for engaging in protected activity,

including but not limited to:

                a.     Assignment to undesirable shifts and locations;

                b.     Increased scrutiny and disciplinary threats;

                c.     Denial of time off, bonuses, raises, and educational assistance;

                d.     False performance allegations; and

                e.     Threats, intimidation, and efforts to force Plaintiff’s resignation.

          38.   The adverse actions occurred shortly after Plaintiff’s protected activity and

were motivated by retaliatory animus.

          39.   As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s retaliatory conduct,

Plaintiff suffered damages including economic loss, emotional harm, and reputational

injury.
      Case 2:25-cv-03475         Document 1        Filed 07/08/25      Page 19 of 20




                                   COUNT IV
 Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of the Pennsylvania Human Relations
                                   Act (PHRA)


       40.     Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in Paragraphs 1

through 39 of this Complaint as if fully set forth herein.

       41.     Defendant’s conduct as described above constitutes unlawful

discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in violation of the PHRA, which prohibits

such conduct based on sex and sexual orientation.

       42.     Plaintiff has satisfied all administrative prerequisites under the PHRA.

50. As a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s unlawful conduct, Plaintiff has

sustained damages as previously alleged.

                                 PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Honorable Court enter

judgment in his favor and against Defendants and award the following relief:

               a. Back pay, front pay, lost benefits, and other compensation denied by

               reason of Defendants’ violations;

               b. Compensatory damages for emotional distress, humiliation, and

               reputational harm;

               c. Punitive damages;

               d. Reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs under 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-5(k);

               e. Pre-judgment and post-judgment interest; and

               f. Such other relief as this Court deems just and proper.

                                JURY TRIAL DEMAND

       43.     Plaintiff demands a trial by jury on all claims so triable.
Case 2:25-cv-03475   Document 1   Filed 07/08/25   Page 20 of 20
