Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/70236383/1/morgan-v-sunoco-logistics-partners-gp-llc/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in MORGAN v. SUNOCO LOGISTICS PARTNERS GP LLC (E.D. Pa., 5:25-cv-02372) – CourtListener.com

         Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG          Document 1       Filed 05/09/25      Page 1 of 9




                      IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

Civil Action No. __:25-cv-_______

QUITA MORGAN,

Plaintiff,

v.

ENERGY TRANSFER, LP,

Defendant.


               PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT WITH DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL


        Plaintiff, Quita Morgan, by and through her attorney, Ralph Lamar, files this her Complaint,

and respectfully alleges as follows:

I.      NATURE OF THE CASE

        1.     This discrimination action is brought against Defendant Energy Transfer, LP,

hereinafter referred to as “Energy Transfer”, by Plaintiff Quita Morgan for equitable relief and

monetary damages to redress the deprivation of civil rights secured to her by 42 U.S.C. § 1981,

Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, (hereinafter referred to as “Title VII”)and

the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, et seq. (hereinafter referred to as “PHRA”).

        2.     Specifically, she alleges that Defendant terminated her employment because of her

race in violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1981, Title VII and the PHRA. Morgan alleges that the

Defendant’s actions caused her to suffer economic losses through loss of employment, and mental

distress and humiliation. She seeks an award of lost pay, compensatory damages, punitive

damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs of this action and seeks equitable relief in the form of an

order of reinstatement or an award of front pay.

                                                   1
         Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG              Document 1      Filed 05/09/25      Page 2 of 9




II.      JURISDICTION AND VENUE

         3.     This action is initiated pursuant to Title VII, 42 U.S.C. § 1981 and the PHRA. This

Court has subject matter jurisdiction for the first two claims under 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331, because they

arise under the laws of the United States. This Court may properly maintain personal jurisdiction

over Defendant because Defendant’s contacts with this state and this judicial district are sufficient

for the exercise of jurisdiction over Defendant to comply with traditional notions of fair play and

substantial justice, satisfying the standard set forth by the United States Supreme Court in

International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945) and its progeny.

         4.     Venue is proper in this judicial District under 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b), (c) and 42 U.S.C.

§ 2000e-5(f)(3), because Defendant has offices, conducts business, and can be found in this District,

and the causes of action arose and the acts and omissions complained of occurred therein.

III.     PARTIES

         5.     Plaintiff is a citizen of the U.S. currently residing in Kansas City, MO and subjects

herself to the jurisdiction of this court.

         6.     Defendant was the employer who terminated plaintiff’s employment.                At all

relevant times Defendant has had at least 15 employees and is capable of being sued under Title

VII and is subject to the jurisdiction of this court under that statute. The office from which plaintiff

worked is located in Sinking Spring, PA. Defendant is therefore subject to the jurisdiction of this

court.

IV.      STATEMENT OF FACTS

         7.     Morgan became employed by Defendant in 2012 as a Regional Engineer.

         8.     She is a hispanic female.

         9.     She performed her job to respondent’s expectations and received promotions over



                                                   2
         Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG          Document 1         Filed 05/09/25     Page 3 of 9




the years.

         10.    In February of 2023 Morgan received a promotion to the position of Director of

Technical Operations.

         11.    Shortly after she received this promotion another employee accused her of having

a conflict of interest.

         12.    Specifically she was alleged to have a conflict of interest in having a personal

relationship with a subordinate, Colin Dorsey.

         13.    Morgan was also alleged to have a conflict of interest in renting a room to Dorsey.

         14.    Morgan was not having a personal relationship with Dorsey and her conduct in

renting a room to him did not violate the respondent’s conflict of interest rules.

         15.    After an investigation was conducted by management Morgan’s employment was

terminated by the Defendant on April 19, 2023 on the basis of the allegation of an improper

relationship with Dorsey and her rental of a room to him.

         16.    Upon information and belief, other employees of respondent, specifically white

males, had the same type of a conflict of interest Morgan was accused of having – a personal

relationship with a subordinate.

         17.    The company knew of those situations, and yet failed to take any disciplinary action

against those individuals.

         18.    Matthew Gordon is the Vice President who was above Morgan in the corporate

chain.

         19.    When he was an Operations Manager in the Pennsylvania region he conducted an

illicit workplace affair with Katelyn Novak who was Morgan’s predecessor in the supervisor

position.



                                                 3
        Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG            Document 1      Filed 05/09/25      Page 4 of 9




       20.     Novak directly reported to Gordon and having an affair would have been a violation

of company policy.

       21.     Gordon was not disciplined over the affair.

       22.     Additionally, Richard Bishop, the person Morgan reported to in her role as

supervisor conducted a long-term sexual affair with Janette Sweeney (who worked as a regional

engineer directly underneath Mr. Bishop) with no negative repercussions.

       23.     Finally, Tamson Phillips engaged in sexual affairs with both Gordon and Mark

Martin (a line supervisor at the same level as Ms. Morgan and to whom Ms. Phillips directly

reported) and neither Gordon nor Martin were disciplined.

       24.     Gordon, Bishop and Martin are male Caucasian members of management at

Morgan’s level or above and knew of the company’s policy regarding relationships with lower

level employees in the reporting chain.

       25.     Yet each engaged in inappropriate behavior in violation of Defendant’s policies and

none were fired.

       26.     The person placed in Morgan’s position after her termination was a white male.

       27.     The reason given for plaintiff’s termination was pretextual.

                                               COUNT I

       42 U.S.C. § 1981 VIOLATION – TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
                      CONTRACT ON THE BASIS OF RACE

       28.     Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in paragraphs 1

through 27 as though set forth fully herein.

       29.     Defendant’s termination of plaintiff’s employment was motivated by plaintiff’s

race in violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1981.

       30.     Defendant’s act of terminating plaintiff’s employment on account of her race was

                                                  4
         Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG           Document 1        Filed 05/09/25      Page 5 of 9




intentional.

         31.    As a direct result of Defendant’s intentional and unlawful actions in violation of

42 U.S.C. § 1981, plaintiff has suffered economic damages, emotional pain and distress, and has

sustained a loss of benefits, and interest due thereon.

         32.    Defendant’s actions were taken with malice and/or reckless indifference to

plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights under 42 U.S.C. § 1981, and plaintiff is therefore

entitled to receive punitive damages.

         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court enter a judgment in her

favor:

         (a)    Awarding lost wages, including lost fringe benefits;

         (b)    Awarding compensatory damages;

         (c)    Awarding punitive damages;

         (d)    Order her reinstatement, or in the alternative, award front pay;

         (e)    Awarding the costs of this action, together with reasonable attorney’s fees; and

         (f)    granting such other relief as the Court deems necessary and appropriate.

                                               COUNT II

TITLE VII VIOLATION – TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ON THE BASIS
                            OF RACE

         33.    Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in paragraphs 1

through 32 as though set forth fully herein.

         34.    Defendant’s termination of plaintiff’s employment was motivated by plaintiff’s

race in violation of Title VII.

         35.    Defendant’s act of terminating plaintiff on account of her race was intentional.

         36.    As a direct result of Defendant’s intentional and unlawful actions in violation of

                                                  5
         Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG            Document 1        Filed 05/09/25       Page 6 of 9




Title VII, plaintiff has suffered economic damages, emotional pain and distress, and has

sustained a loss of benefits, and interest due thereon.

         37.    Defendant’s actions were taken with malice and/or reckless indifference to

plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights under Title VII, and plaintiff is therefore entitled to

receive punitive damages.

         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court enter a judgment in her

favor:

         (a)    Awarding lost wages, including lost fringe benefits;

         (b)    Awarding compensatory damages;

         (c)    Awarding punitive damages;

         (d)    Order her reinstatement, or in the alternative, award front pay;

         (e)    Awarding the costs of this action, together with reasonable attorney’s fees; and

         (f)    granting such other relief as the Court deems necessary and appropriate.

                                             COUNT III

VIOLATION OF PHRA – TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ON THE BASIS
                          OF RACE

         38.    Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in paragraphs 1

through 37 as though set forth fully herein.

         39.    Defendant’s termination of plaintiff’s employment was motivated by plaintiff’s

race in violation of the PHRA.

         40.    Defendant’s termination of plaintiff’s employment on the basis of her race was

intentional.

         41.    As a direct result of Defendant’s intentional and unlawful actions in violation of

the PHRA, plaintiff has suffered economic damages, emotional pain and distress, and has

                                                   6
         Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG            Document 1        Filed 05/09/25       Page 7 of 9




sustained a loss of benefits, and interest due thereon.

         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court enter a judgment in her

favor:

         (a)    Awarding lost wages, including lost fringe benefits;

         (b)    Awarding compensatory damages;

         (c)    Order her reinstatement, or in the alternative, award front pay;

         (d)    Awarding the costs of this action, together with reasonable attorney’s fees; and

         (e)    granting such other relief as the Court deems necessary and appropriate.

                                             COUNT IV

TITLE VII VIOLATION – TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ON THE BASIS
                          OF GENDER

         42.    Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in paragraphs 1

through 41 as though set forth fully herein.

         43.    Defendant’s termination of plaintiff’s employment was motivated by plaintiff’s

gender in violation of Title VII.

         44.    Defendant’s act of terminating plaintiff on account of her gender was intentional.

         45.    As a direct result of Defendant’s intentional and unlawful actions in violation of

Title VII, plaintiff has suffered economic damages, emotional pain and distress, and has

sustained a loss of benefits, and interest due thereon.

         46.    Defendant’s actions were taken with malice and/or reckless indifference to

plaintiff’s federally protected civil rights under Title VII, and plaintiff is therefore entitled to

receive punitive damages.

         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court enter a judgment in her

favor:

                                                   7
         Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG           Document 1       Filed 05/09/25      Page 8 of 9




         (a)    Awarding lost wages, including lost fringe benefits;

         (b)    Awarding compensatory damages;

         (c)    Awarding punitive damages;

         (d)    Order her reinstatement, or in the alternative, award front pay;

         (e)    Awarding the costs of this action, together with reasonable attorney’s fees; and

         (f)    granting such other relief as the Court deems necessary and appropriate.

                                               COUNT V

VIOLATION OF PHRA – TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ON THE BASIS
                         OF GENDER

         47.    Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations set forth in paragraphs 1

through 46 as though set forth fully herein.

         48.    Defendant’s termination of plaintiff’s employment was motivated by plaintiff’s

gender in violation of the PHRA.

         49.    Defendant’s termination of plaintiff’s employment on the basis of her gender was

intentional.

         50.    As a direct result of Defendant’s intentional and unlawful actions in violation of

the PHRA, plaintiff has suffered economic damages, emotional pain and distress, and has

sustained a loss of benefits, and interest due thereon.

         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court enter a judgment in her

favor:

         (a)    Awarding lost wages, including lost fringe benefits;

         (b)    Awarding compensatory damages;

         (c)    Order her reinstatement, or in the alternative, award front pay;

         (d)    Awarding the costs of this action, together with reasonable attorney’s fees; and

                                                  8
        Case 5:25-cv-02372-JMG            Document 1        Filed 05/09/25       Page 9 of 9




       (e)     granting such other relief as the Court deems necessary and appropriate.

                                         JURY DEMAND

       Plaintiff demands a trial by jury on all claims properly triable by a jury.

Dated this 9th day of May, 2025.

                                               Respectfully submitted,

                                               _s/Ralph E. Lamar______
                                               RALPH E. LAMAR
                                               4728 Hamilton Blvd.
                                               Allentown, PA 18103
                                               (610) 563-0726
                                               ralphlamar@ymail.com

                                               ATTORNEY FOR PLAINTIFF




                                                   9
