Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/70244987/1/fisher-v-resources-for-human-development-rhd/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in Fisher v. RESOURCES FOR HUMAN DEVELOPMENT (E.D. Pa., 2:25-cv-02401) – CourtListener.com

        Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP         Document 1       Filed 05/12/25     Page 1 of 55




                     IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                  FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

_____________________________________
Stacy Fisher and                      :
Braheem Boardley-Murray               :
        Plaintiffs                    :                     CIVIL ACTION NO.
                v.                    :
Resources for Human Development       :                    JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
        and                           :
Letiki Branham                        :
        and                           :
Jasmine McGriff                       :
        Defendants                    :
______________________________________

                                         COMPLAINT

                                      INTRODUCTION


       1.     Plaintiffs Stacy Fisher (hereinafter “Ms. Fisher”) and Braheem Boardley-

Murray (hereinafter “Mr. Boardley-Murray”) are suing their former employer Defendant

Resources for Human Development (hereinafter “Defendant RHD”) and RHD

management employees Letiki Branham (hereinafter “Defendant Branham”) and Jasmine

McGriff (hereinafter “Defendant McGriff”) for subjecting them to unlawful workplace

discrimination and retaliation that ultimately resulted in both Plaintiffs being terminated

from their employment.

       2.     Plaintiff Stacey Fisher alleges Defendants unlawfully discriminated and

retaliated against her in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as codified, 42

U.S.C. §§ 2000e to 2000e-17 (“Title VII”), the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29

U.S.C. § 2601, et seq. (“FMLA”), the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), 29 U.S.C. §§ 201-

219, the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. § 951 et seq. (PRHA), the

Pennsylvania Whistleblower Law, 43 P.S. 1421, et seq. (PWL), the Pennsylvania Wage

                                               1
        Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP         Document 1       Filed 05/12/25      Page 2 of 55




Payment and Collection Law (PWPCL), the City of Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance

§ 9-1103(1) (PFPO), and defamation.

       3.      Plaintiff Mr. Boardley-Murray alleges Defendants unlawfully discriminated

and retaliated against him in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as codified,

42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e to 2000e-17 (“Title VII”), the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43

P.S. § 951 et seq. (PRHA), the Pennsylvania Whistleblower Law, 43 P.S. 1421, et seq.

(PWL), the City of Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) (PFPO), and

defamation.

       4.      Plaintiffs seek all damages available under these statutes and claims,

including, but not limited to back pay, reinstatement or front pay, loss of earnings capacity,

compensatory damages, punitive damages, liquidated damages, damages for emotional

distress, pain and suffering, interest, compensation for negative tax consequence

damages, injunctive relief, and attorney’s fees and costs.



                                    Venue and Jurisdiction

       5.      This Court has jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331 and 1343 for

claims under Title VII, the FMLA, and the FLSA. Furthermore, Defendants’ conduct

violated the PHRA, PWL, PWPCL, and PFPO, and the pendant jurisdiction of this Court

is invoked to remedy those violations.

       6.      Defendant RHD has its principal place of business in Philadelphia.

       7.      Venue is appropriate in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania because the

events or omissions giving rise to Plaintiffs claims occurred in this District and because

all Defendants are subject to this District’s personal jurisdiction with respect to this action.



                                                2
        Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1        Filed 05/12/25   Page 3 of 55




       8.       Ms. Fisher exhausted her administrative requirements pursuant to Title VII

and PHRA by timely filing a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity

Commission and dually filing with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission. Ms.

Fisher received a Notice of Right to Sue from the EEOC on March 20, 2025, and this

Complaint is filed within 90 days of that date. Exhibit A.

       9.       Mr. Boardley-Murray exhausted his administrative requirements pursuant to

Title VII and PHRA by timely filing a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity

Commission and dually filing with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission. Mr.

Boardley-Murray received a Notice of Right to Sue from the EEOC on March 31, 2025,

and this Complaint is filed within 90 days of that date. Exhibit B.



                                         The Parties

       10.      Plaintiff Stacy Fisher is an adult individual residing at 524 Ruth Street,

Buena, NJ 08310.

       11.      Ms. Fisher is a citizen and resident of the United States.

       12.      At all times relevant hereto, Ms. Fisher worked for Defendant RHD in

Philadelphia.

       13.      Plaintiff Braheem Boardley-Murray is an adult individual residing at 202 E.

Sharpnack Street, Philadelphia, PA 19119.

       14.      Mr. Boardley-Murray is a citizen and resident of the United States.

       15.      At all times relevant hereto, Mr. Boardley-Murray worked for Defendant

RHD in Philadelphia.




                                               3
          Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP             Document 1          Filed 05/12/25        Page 4 of 55




        16.      Defendant Resources for Human Development, Inc. is a domestic non-

profit corporation with its principal place of business at 4700 Wissahickon Avenue, Suite

#126, Philadelphia.

        17.      Upon information and belief, Defendant RHD employs more than one

thousand employees.

        18.      Defendant RHD is an employer as defined in Title VII, the FMLA, the

FLSA, the PHRC, the PWPLC, and the Philadelphia FPO.

        19.      Defendant RHD receives a significant amount of its funding by or through

the Commonwealth and/or a political subdivision authority.

        20.      Defendant RHD receives funding from the Pennsylvania Department of

Health, the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development and

Medicaid.

        21.      Defendant RHD is an Employer as defined by the PA Whistleblower law.

        22.      At all material times hereto, Defendant RHD acted through its employees,

agents, representatives and/or servants who were acting within the course and scope of

their employment and authority.



                Background of the Plaintiffs’ Employment with Defendant RHD

        23.      Ms. Fisher was hired by Defendant RHD in or about February of 2021.

        24.      Ms. Fisher was a Direct Support Professional working with consumers1 in a

residential living program in Philadelphia for people with mental disabilities located on

Coles Boulevard (hereinafter “the Coles site”).


1
 “Consumer” is the term used by RHD for the individuals with mental disabilities who live in the group homes run
by RHD.

                                                        4
        Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1      Filed 05/12/25   Page 5 of 55




      25.    Mr. Boardley-Murray was hired by Defendant RHD in or about November

of 2021.

      26.    Mr. Boardley-Murray was a Direct Support Professional working with

consumers with mental disabilities at the Coles site.

      27.    Mr. Boardley-Murray and Ms. Fisher are cousins by marriage.



                         Facts Relating to the Plaintiffs’ Claims

      28.    On October 26, 2024, Ms. Fisher called and spoke with Kelly McManus, a

Program Specialist at Defendant RHD and told Ms. McManus that she felt threatened by

a male employee (Steven Collins) who had harassed her calling her “Ms. supervisor

manager lady.” Ms. McManus told Ms. Fisher to put her complaint about this sex-based

workplace harassment in writing to her site manager, Mr. Jamero Briley. Her texts with

Ms. McManus and email to Mr. Briley are attached as Exhibit C.

      29.    Ms. Fisher had worked at the Cole’s site for more than three years and the

man who had threatened her had worked there for less than three months.

      30.    After reporting this sex-based harassment, Ms. Fisher was treated less

favorably than the similarly situated male co-worker who harassed her. On October 28,

2024, she was required to transfer to a different site by Defendant RHD management

employee Defendant Branham. The male harasser was allowed to stay at the Cole’s site.

The transfer letter, which references “the concerns you raised” is attached as Exhibit D.

      31.    Defendant Branham told Ms. Fisher the transfer was for her safety.




                                            5
          Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP    Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 6 of 55




       32.     October 28, 2024, Ms. Fisher emailed Defendant Branham a complaint of

discrimination and bias with the subject heading “Unwilling transfer” which is attached as

Exhibit E.

       33.     On or about October 31, 2024, Mr. Boardley-Murray contacted his director

Defendant McGriff to report some of the consumers were suicidal and were not being

allowed to speak with the staff they needed, which he believed may be a form of neglect.

       34.     At the same time, Mr. Boardley-Murray also reported sexual harassment

because his co-worker Alexis was telling people that he was sleeping with his cousin, Ms.

Fisher, which was not true.

       35.     In early November Mr. Boardley-Murray met with RHD investigator Mr.

Hillary Mafura, who was conducting an investigation of the Coles site, and discussed his

concerns about Defendant RHD consumers being neglected by Defendant RHD staff as

part of an investigation by the Pennsylvania Department of Health.

       36.     During the same conversation, Mr. Boardley-Murray also told Mr. Mafura

about his sexual harassment concerns.

       37.     On or about November 5, 2024, Ms. Fisher met with Mr. Mafura and

discussed her concerns about Defendant RHD consumers being neglected by Defendant

RHD staff at the Coles site as part of an investigation by the Pennsylvania Department of

Health.

       38.     Ms. Fisher also told Mr. Mafura about Mr. Collins harassing her using

misogynistic language and how Defendant Branham transferred Ms. Fisher against her

will after Ms. Fisher complained to Defendant Branham about that sex-based harassment.




                                            6
          Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 7 of 55




         39.      After this meeting Defendant Branham contacted Mr. Briley, the Coles site

manager, and asked him to find out why Ms. Fisher met with Mr. Mafura for so long.

Defendant Branham also refused to pay Ms. Fisher for some of the hours that she was

working, cut her working hours in favor of a new temporary worker, and created a hostile

work environment by telling new employees that Ms. Fisher had treated her co-workers

badly.

         40.      The Pennsylvania Department of Health had investigators come to the

Coles site on or about November 5, 2024, and November 13, 2024, and again later in

November 2024.

         41.      During those visits, Mr. Boardley-Murray provided the Commonwealth

investigators with information on the following issues involving potential waste, fraud and

neglect:

               a. One of the consumers was not being given eye drops that he needed

                  by RHD staff members Alexis and Steven Collins, and they were

                  falsely recording in a book that they had been giving the medication.

                  They had falsely claimed to have given the eye drops even on days

                  when the medication was not available to be given.

               b. Consumers were claiming they were not able to meet with their

                  support coordinators, but the coordinators were claiming they were

                  meeting in person with the consumers and submitting bills for work

                  Mr. Boardley-Murray did not believe they were doing.




                                                7
        Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1     Filed 05/12/25   Page 8 of 55




             c. Consumers had complaints that were being ignored because

                Defendant McGriff and Kelly McManus, another RHD manager, were

                preventing the consumers from making their complaints known.

             d. RHD employee Steven Collins was taking consumers out to shop but

                then taking the consumer’s money and using it for himself.

             e. A consumer reported that an outside contractor from One Well had

                taken the consumer to a friend’s house and made him take a shower

                at the friend’s house which made the consumer very upset and feel

                violated. The contractors were taking the consumers to places the

                contractors wanted to go, when they were supposed to going to

                places the consumers wanted to go. This was a potential issue of

                waste and fraud because the outside contractor was not providing

                the services they were supposed to provide.

       42.      On November 8, 2024, Ms. Fisher wrote to Mr. Mafura complaining about

workplace discrimination and retaliation and shared her concerns that Defendant

Branham told other Defendant RHD staff members that she believed Ms. Fisher had

called in a complaint to the Commonwealth which resulted in its investigation of the Coles

site, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit F.

       43.      On November 11, 2024, Ms. Fisher wrote to Defendant Branham

complaining about not being paid for the time she had worked. She sent additional e-

mails regarding concerns about not being properly paid on November 29, December 2,

and December 5, 2024. Exhibit G.




                                             8
        Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1      Filed 05/12/25   Page 9 of 55




      44.       On November 12, 2024, Mr. Boardley-Murray sent a follow-up text to Mr.

Mafura telling him that he was concerned his harassment situation was being downplayed

by his director, Defendant McGriff. Mr. Mafura did not respond. The texts are attached

as Exhibit H.

      45.       On November 19, 2024, Ms. Fisher requested the forms to apply for FMLA

and submitted the completed forms on November 22.

      46.       After Ms. Fisher and Mr. Boardley-Murray met with the Department of

Health Officials, their site manager Jamero Briley told them that Defendant Branham and

Defendant McGriff were targeting them because they had reported concerns to the state

about the safety and treatment of Defendant RHD consumers.

      47.       Mr. Briley told Ms. Fisher and Mr. Boardley-Murray that Defendant Branham

and Defendant McGriff were saying not to trust them because they were the reason for

the state’s investigation of Defendant RHD.

      48.       Mr. Briley told Mr. Boardley-Murray that Defendant McGriff asked about his

looks and marital status in relation to his sexual harassment complaint.

      49.       After Mr. Boardley-Murray told the investigators that consumers were not

meeting in person with their support personnel despite records claiming they had, Kelly

McManus asked him to sign a sign-in sheet for a meeting that had happened about a

month earlier. The meeting was supposed to be a face to face meeting with the support

coordinators and the consumers. Mr. Boardley-Murray and the consumers had showed

up for the meeting expecting to be able to meet with the support coordinators, but Ms.

McManus changed the meeting into a zoom meeting and told Mr. Boardley-Murray that

he and the consumers would not be involved in the meeting.



                                              9
        Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1      Filed 05/12/25   Page 10 of 55




       50.      On or about November 20, 2024, a woman who lived next door to the group

home, reported to Mr. Boardley-Murray that an RHD employee Kyle Murray (no relation)

was sexually harassing her. Mr. Boardley-Murray reported that to Mr. Briley. Mr. Briley

reported the sexual harassment to Defendant Branham and Defendant McGriff. Kyle

Murray was not disciplined, only moved to another location.

       51.      Ms. Fisher contacted Bernard Glavin, Defendant RHD’s Executive Vice

President about her discrimination and harassment concerns and he advised her to

contact Ms. Manay Gunter, Defendant RHD’s Director of Intellectual & Developmental

Disabilities Service Line.

       52.      On November 20, 2024, Ms. Fisher wrote to Ms. Gunter that she was being

retaliated against for speaking to an investigator (Mr. Mafura) regarding allegations

against Defendant RHD. She followed up with a more detailed explanation which included

her concern about staff sexually harassing a woman who lived next door to the Defendant

RHD site and informing Ms. Gunter that Mr. Boardley-Murray was a witness to the

harassment and was also being harassed by management. These emails are attached

as Exhibit I.

       53.      Ms. Fisher also complained multiple times in writing that she was not being

paid for all of the hours that she had worked, including overtime hours.

       54.      On November 24, 2024, Mr. Boardley-Murray and Mr. Briley exchanged

text messages about the false allegations being made against him by his co-workers. The

texts are attached as Exhibit J.




                                             10
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 11 of 55




       55.     On November 27, 2024, Ms. Fisher wrote to Ms. Gunter again asking how

to file a formal complaint and noted on October 30, 2024 she asked how to file a formal

complaint but received no response. This email is attached as Exhibit K.

       56.     On December 4, 2024, Ms. Fisher wrote to Defendant McGriff asking why

she told Sharon, one of the managers, that Ms. Fisher was not allowed to pick up open

shifts at the Coles site. This email is attached as Exhibit L.

       57.     Ms. Fisher’s position was not filled until January of 2025.

       58.     In early December Erin Payton, the Defendant RHD Director of Compliance,

and a close friend of Defendant McGriff, called Mr. Boardley-Murray about his sexual

harassment complaint. Ms. Payton told him some inappropriate things had been said

about his looks, but it wasn’t sexual harassment. Ms. Payton then asked Mr. Boardley-

Murray why he reported his concerns about Defendant RHD to the state. Mr. Boardley-

Murray told her that management had left him without support and that the consumers

needed help.

       59.     Shortly after that, Ms. Payton called Mr. Briley and asked him why Mr. Briley

had told Mr. Boardley-Murray that Defendant McGriff was asking about his looks and

marital status.    Ms. Payton also asked Mr. Briley why Mr. Boardley-Murray had

complained to the state.

       60.     Mr. Boardley-Murray then requested to be reassigned so he would not be

under Defendant Branham and Defendant McGriff’s supervision. He never received a

reply to that request.

       61.     After that, when new temp workers were sent to the Coles site, they would

initially be hostile towards Mr. Boardley-Murray, but then they were friendly after they got



                                             11
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1      Filed 05/12/25       Page 12 of 55




to know him. They told Mr. Boardley-Murray that Defendant Branham had told them that

they shouldn’t talk to him because he didn’t like women, he bullied people, and he would

get the consumers to harass staff members and get them fired.

       62.    On December 6, 2024, Mr. Boardley-Murray texted Josh another RHD

supervisor that Defendant Branham had told Mr. Briley that his complaints were

“ridiculous nonsense.” Josh wrote back that Mr. Boardley-Murray’s complaint had “been

escalated on our end.” A photo of the text is attached as Exhibit M.

       63.    Mr. Boardley-Murray continued to report his concerns of Defendant RHD

staff members treating consumers improperly. On December 11, 2024, he communicated

with Michelle Holmes, an RHD supervisor about an incident where Alexis had started a

night shift at the Coles site and forced a consumer who had been watching TV in the living

room to go in his room, shut his door and told him not to come out so she could sleep

during her shift. Exhibit N.



                   Defendants Suspend and Terminate Both Plaintiffs

       64.    On December 14, 2024, Ms. Fisher was suspended by Defendant Branham

pending the outcome of an investigation. Ms. Fisher wrote to ask why she was being

investigated and Defendant Branham responded she was not at liberty to discuss it and

an investigator would reach out to her. This email chain is attached as Exhibit O.

       65.    No investigator ever contacted Ms. Fisher about any allegations against her.

       66.    Ms. Fisher had no prior discipline or complaints in the three years she had

been working for Defendant RHD.

       67.    Mr. Boardley-Murray went on vacation on December 16, 2024.



                                            12
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP          Document 1   Filed 05/12/25   Page 13 of 55




       68.    On December 18, 2024, Defendant RHD posted Mr. Boardley-Murray’s

position as a job opening. A photo of the Job Posting is attached as Exhibit P.

       69.    On December 19, 2024, Ms. Fisher’s attorney sent a detailed email to Mr.

Glavin as well as Shenise Hariston (Defendant RHD’s Director of HR), and Brian Rhodes,

(Defendant RHD’s CEO). A copy is attached as Exhibit Q.

       70.    The email stated, “Defendant Branham’s suspension of Ms. Fisher appears

to be part of the pattern of retaliation that Ms. Fisher has suffered over the prior seven

weeks.” It raised potential legal claims including the Pennsylvania Whistleblower Law, the

Pennsylvania Wage Payment and Collection Law and the Federal Fair Labor Standards

Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, and the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Act.

       71.    On December 23, 2024, Mr. Boardley-Murray wrote to Mr. Mafura again

telling him that he might be out of work because he saw his shift posted, a copy of the

text is attached as Exhibit G.

       72.    Later that day, Mr. Boardley-Murray received a call from Defendant RHD

representative Barry Harris, telling him that he had been put on administrative leave.

       73.    Mr. Boardley-Murray had no prior discipline in the three years he had

worked for Defendant RHD.

       74.    On January 13, 2025, Ms. Fisher was fired on a Zoom call with Defendant

McGriff, Amira Thomas (Regional Director) and Monica Ewells (HR). Defendant McGriff

told Ms. Fisher that she had committed theft and misuse of a consumer’s funds. Ms.

Fisher asked what they were talking about, and they would not explain. They said she

would receive a letter in the mail.



                                             13
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1       Filed 05/12/25   Page 14 of 55




       75.    A few days later Ms. Fisher received a termination letter dated January 10,

2025. A copy of the letter is attached as Exhibit R.

       76.    Upon information and belief, Defendants RHD, Branham, and McGriff

knowingly and falsely accused Ms. Fisher of theft or misappropriation of RHD or client

property, cash, credit, or funds. Exhibit R.

       77.    On or about January 13, Ms. Holmes called Mr. Boardley-Murray and

interviewed him about the incident where Alexis had forced a consumer to stay in his

room with the door shut. Mr. Boardley-Murray also told her that Defendant Branham was

harassing him. He recalls getting a call shortly after that from Defendant McGriff telling

him that his employment with Defendant RHD was terminated.

       78.    Mr. Boardley-Murray received a letter dated January 10, 2025. A copy of the

letter is attached as Exhibit S.

       79.    Upon information and belief, Defendants RHD, Branham, and McGriff

knowingly and falsely accused Mr. Boardley-Murray of violations of safety or health

policies and/or negligent/unsafe behaviors that may endanger another person,

destruction of property and/or equipment. Exhibit S.

       80.    Mr. Boardley-Murray does not know what the letter was referring to and no

one ever explained to him what he allegedly did or asked for his side of the story.

       81.    Ms. Fisher wrote to Mr. Briley asking if he knew what she was accused of

doing. He wrote back, “nobody ever said anything about money to me at all I do believe

it’s a lie they just needed something.” A copy of the text messages are attached as Exhibit

T.




                                               14
         Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 15 of 55




         82.   Ms. Fisher requested unemployment compensation and was awarded

benefits because Defendant RHD did not provide any information about why her

employment was terminated.

         83.   As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ unlawful actions as

described herein, Mr. Fisher has suffered past, present and future loss of earnings and

benefits, emotional distress, mental anguish, humiliation, loss of life’s pleasures, pain and

suffering, damage to reputation, and has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

         84.   As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ unlawful actions as

described herein, Mr. Boardley-Murray has suffered past, present and future loss of

earnings and benefits, emotional distress, mental anguish, humiliation, loss of life’s

pleasures, pain and suffering, damage to reputation, and has incurred attorneys’ fees and

costs.

                                          COUNT I
                            Title VII, 42 U.S. C. $ 2000e-3(a)
                         Discrimination and Retaliation Due to Sex
                        Plaintiff Stacy Fisher vs. Defendant RHD


         85.   Plaintiffs   re-allege and   incorporate by reference the          preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

         86.   Defendant RHD discriminated against Ms. Fisher due to her sex by

transferring her to a less favorable work location against her will and allowing the male

employee who harassed her to stay at her former work location.

         87.   Ms. Fisher engaged in protected activity under Title VII as set forth in this

complaint, including, but not limited to:




                                             15
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP         Document 1      Filed 05/12/25   Page 16 of 55




             a. Reporting    sex   related    workplace   harassment,    when    she

                complained to RHD management about Mr. Collins, a male

                employee who had harassed her calling her “Ms. supervisor

                manager lady” on October 26, 2024. See Exhibit C.

             b. Emailing Defendant Branham on October 28, 2024, a complaint of

                discrimination and bias with the subject heading “Unwilling transfer”

                which is attached as Exhibit E.

             c. Telling Mr. Mafura on November 5, 2024, about Mr. Collins harassing

                her using misogynistic language and how Defendant Branham

                transferred Ms. Fisher against her will after Ms. Fisher complained

                to Defendant Branham about that sex-based harassment.

             d. Writing to Ms. Gunter on November 20, 2024, about staff sexually

                harassing eldly [sic] woman next door.”

       88.      Defendant RHD engaged in materially adverse retaliation against Ms.

Fisher for her protected activity as set forth in this complaint, including, but not limited

to:

             a. Transferring her to a less favorable work location against her will;

             b. Refusing to allow her to work requested hours;

             c. Failing to pay her properly for time worked;

             d. Harassing her in her workplace and spreading false rumors about

                her to other staff members;

             e. Failing to properly investigate or respond to her claims of

                discrimination and retaliation;



                                               16
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP            Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 17 of 55




            f. Suspending her from employment on or about December 14, 2024;

            g. Terminating her employment on or about January 10, 2025.

      89.         There was a causal connection between Ms. Fisher’s protected activity

under the Title VII and Defendant RHD’s materially adverse retaliatory actions taken

against her.

      90.         The retaliation endured by Ms. Fisher would dissuade a reasonable

employee from making complaints of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.

      91.          Defendant RHD retaliated against Ms. Fisher for engaging in protected

activity in violation of Section 704(a) of Title VII, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3(a).

WHEREFORE, Ms. Fisher respectfully requests this Court:

      A.          Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendant RHD’s

                  actions as set forth in this Complaint are unlawful and violate Title

                  VII.

      B.          Issue equitable/injunctive relief including:

            (1)      Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

                     restraining Defendant RHD, its officers, agents, employees, and

                     those acting in participation with Defendant RHD, from engaging

                     in any act or practice of harassment, discrimination, and/or

                     retaliation against employees in violation of Title VII.

            (2)      Order Defendant RHD to provide training to all employees on

                     harassment, discrimination, and retaliation prevention and

                     related compliance under Title VII—with the training specifics to




                                                 17
Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP             Document 1     Filed 05/12/25   Page 18 of 55




              be tailored to the problems, deficiencies, and gaps that the

              evidence shows.

     (3)      Order Defendant RHD to deliver to its employees a copy of the

              jury verdict and trial court judgment.

     (4)      Order Defendant RHD to report on the manner of compliance with

              the terms of any final order for non-monetary equitable relief

              issued under Title VII—with the reporting specifics to be tailored

              based on the evidence.

     (5)      Order Defendant RHD to reinstate Ms. Fisher upon such terms

              and conditions as will put Ms. Fisher in the position Ms. Fisher

              would have occupied had Defendant RHD not unlawfully

              discriminated against Ms. Fisher.

C.         Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher and against Defendant RHD

           for back pay, including wages and fringe benefits.

D.         Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher for front pay in lieu of

           reinstatement.

E.         Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher and against Defendant RHD

           for compensatory damages for emotional distress, career damage,

           loss   of   earnings     capacity,   mental   anguish,   humiliation,

           embarrassment, and loss of dignity.

F.         Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher and against Defendant RHD

           for punitive damages, as allowable by law.




                                          18
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP            Document 1    Filed 05/12/25     Page 19 of 55




       G.       Award Ms. Fisher reasonable attorney’s fees together with the costs

                of this action.

       H.       Award Ms. Fisher pre-judgment and post-judgment interest.

       I.       Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher for any other monetary losses

                as a direct result of Defendant RHD’s violation of Title VII, including

                but not limited to negative tax consequence damages.

       J.       Award such other and further legal and equitable relief as may be

                necessary and appropriate to redress fully the deprivation of Ms.

                Fisher’s rights, to prevent their recurrence in the future and to protect

                other employees from such unlawful behavior.



                                              COUNT II
                                          FMLA Retaliation
                             Plaintiff Stacy Fisher vs. All Defendants


       92.      Plaintiffs     re-allege and   incorporate by reference the          preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

       93.      Ms. Fisher was an eligible employee under the definitional terms of the

FMLA, 29 U.S.C. § 2611(a)(i)(ii).

       94.      Ms. Fisher took time off from working with Defendant RHD, with whom she

had been employed for at least twelve months pursuant to the requirements of 29 U.S.C.

§ 2611(2)(i).

       95.      Ms. Fisher had at least 1,250 hours of service with Defendant RHD during

her last full year of employment (pre-FMLA request).




                                                19
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 20 of 55




       96.    Defendant is engaged in an industry affecting commerce and employs fifty

(50) or more employees for each working day during each of the twenty (20) or more

calendar work weeks in the current or proceeding calendar year, pursuant to 29 U.S.C.A

§ 2611(4)(A)(i).

       97.    Ms. Fisher was entitled to receive leave pursuant to 29 U.S.C.A § 2612

(a)(1) for a total of twelve (12) work weeks of leave on a block or intermittent basis.

       98.    As averred above, on November 21, 2024, Ms. Fisher requested FMLA

leave which Defendant RHD granted shortly thereafter.

       99.    After requesting FMLA leave, Ms. Fisher was retaliated against and

subjected to harassment by Defendants RHD, Branham and McGriff which ultimately led

to her suspension and termination.

       100.   Defendants Branham and McGriff were involved in the decision to suspend

and terminate Ms. Fisher’s employment.

       101.   Defendants RHD, Branham and McGriff retaliated against Ms. Fisher by

suspending and firing her after she exercised her FMLA rights.

       102.   There was a causal connection between Ms. Fisher’s exercise of her rights

under the FMLA and the Defendants’ materially adverse retaliatory actions taken against

her.

       WHEREFORE, Ms. Fisher respectfully requests this Court:

       A.     Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendants’ actions as

              set forth in this Complaint are unlawful and violate the FMLA.

       B.     Issue equitable/injunctive relief including:




                                             20
Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP           Document 1      Filed 05/12/25   Page 21 of 55




     (1)      Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

              restraining Defendant RHD, its officers, agents, employees, and

              those acting in participation with Defendants, from engaging in

              any act or practice of interference, discrimination, and/or

              retaliation against employees in violation of the FMLA.

     (2)      Order Defendant RHD to provide training to all employees on

              interference, discrimination, and retaliation prevention and

              related compliance under the FMLA—with the training specifics

              to be tailored to the problems, deficiencies, and gaps that the

              evidence shows.

     (3)      Order Defendant RHD to deliver to its employees a copy of the

              jury verdict and trial court judgment.

     (4)      Order Defendant RHD to report on the manner of compliance with

              the terms of any final order for non-monetary equitable relief

              issued under the FMLA—with the reporting specifics to be

              tailored based on the evidence.

     (5)      Order Defendant RHD to reinstate Ms. Fisher upon such terms

              and conditions as will put Ms. Fisher in the position Ms. Fisher

              would have occupied had Defendants not unlawfully retaliated

              against Ms. Fisher.

C.         Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher and against Defendants RHD,

           Branham and McGriff for back pay, including wages and fringe

           benefits.



                                         21
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1      Filed 05/12/25     Page 22 of 55




      D.     Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher for front pay in lieu of

             reinstatement.

      E.     Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher and against Defendants RHD,

             Branham and McGriff for liquidated damages, as allowable by law.

      F.     Award Ms. Fisher reasonable attorney’s fees together with the costs

             of this action.

      G.     Award Ms. Fisher pre-judgment and post-judgment interest.

      H.     Enter judgment in favor of Ms. Fisher for any other monetary losses

             as a direct result of Defendants’ violation of the FMLA, including but

             not limited to negative tax consequence damages.

      I.     Award such other and further legal and equitable relief as may be

             necessary and appropriate to redress fully the deprivation of Ms.

             Fisher’s rights, to prevent their recurrence in the future and to protect

             other employees from such unlawful behavior.



                                          COUNT III
                               FLSA Violations and Retaliation
                          Plaintiff Stacy Fisher vs. All Defendants


      103.   Plaintiffs   re-allege and    incorporate by reference the           preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

      104.   At all times material herein, Ms. Fisher was entitled to the rights, protections

and benefits provided under the FLSA, 29 U.S.C. § 201, et seq.

      105.   When Ms. Fisher worked hours in excess of 40 hours per week, she was

entitled to overtime compensation at a rate of one and one-half times her regular rate of

                                            22
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 23 of 55




pay for each additional hour or fraction thereof worked. 29 U.S.C. § 207; 29 C.F.R. §

553.230.

       106.   Defendant RHD failed and refused to pay Ms. Fisher for some of the hours

she worked.

       107.   Defendant RHD failed and refused to provide Ms. Fisher in a timely manner

for hours she worked.

       108.   Defendant RHD failed and refused to provide Ms. Fisher with overtime

compensation at a rate of one and one-half times her regular rate of pay.

       109.   Defendant RHD’s FLSA violations wrongly deprived Ms. Fisher of

compensation she was owed, including the FLSA overtime compensation that is due to

her at times material herein.

       110.   At all relevant times, Defendant RHD has been aware of the provisions of

the FLSA. Defendant RHD’s actions and omissions as alleged herein were knowing,

willful, bad faith, and reckless violations of 29 U.S.C. section 207 within the meaning of

29 U.S.C. section 255(a).

       111.   As a result of the aforesaid willful violations of the FLSA, compensation has

been unlawfully withheld by Defendant RHD from Ms. Fisher for which Defendant RHD is

liable pursuant to the FLSA, together with an additional equal amount as liquidated

damages, interest, reasonable attorneys’ fees and the costs of this action.

       112.   The employment and work records for Ms. Fisher are in the exclusive

possession, custody and control of Defendant RHD, so she is unable to state at this time

the exact amounts owing to her. Defendant RHD is under a duty imposed by the FLSA,




                                            23
          Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1     Filed 05/12/25   Page 24 of 55




29 U.S.C. § 211(c), and the regulations of the United States Department of Labor to

maintain and preserve payroll and other employment records.

          113.   Ms. Fisher complained in writing and orally to Defendant RHD about its

failure to pay her for the time she worked, including overtime hours. Please see Exhibit

G.

          114.   Section 15(a)(3) of the FLSA states that it is a violation for any

person to “discharge or in any other manner discriminate against any employee because

such employee has filed any complaint or instituted or caused to be instituted any

proceeding under or related to this Act, or has testified or is about to testify in any such

proceeding, or has served or is about to serve on an industry committee.”

          115.   Ms. Fisher’s complaints to Defendant RHD about its failure to pay her for

the time she worked, including overtime hours, is protected activity under Section 15(a)(3)

of the FLSA.

          116.   Defendants RHD, Branham and McGriff retaliated against Ms. Fisher by

suspending and firing her after she complained about a potential violation of her FLSA

rights.

          117.   There was a causal connection between Ms. Fisher’s complaint about a

potential violation of her FLSA rights and the Defendants’ materially adverse retaliatory

actions taken against her.

          WHEREFORE, Ms. Fisher requests from the Court the following relief:

          A.     A declaratory judgment declaring that Defendant RHD has willfully,

                 unreasonably, wrongfully, and without good faith, violated its




                                             24
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 25 of 55




             statutory and legal obligations, and deprived Ms. Fisher of her rights,

             protections and entitlements under federal law, as alleged herein;

      B.     An order for a complete and accurate accounting of all the

             compensation to which Plaintiffs are entitled;

      C.     Judgment against Defendant RHD awarding Ms. Fisher monetary

             damages in the form of back pay compensation, liquidated damages

             equal to her unpaid compensation, plus pre-judgment and post-

             judgment interest;

      D.     An award of punitive damages against Defendants RHD, Branham

             and McGriff due to their retaliation against Ms. Fisher in violation of

             the FLSA;

      E.     An award of damages for emotional distress, pain and suffering,

             against Defendants RHD, Branham and McGriff due to their

             retaliation against Ms. Fisher in violation of the FLSA;

      F.     An award of reasonable attorneys’ fees, as well as costs and

             disbursement of this action; and

      G. An award granting such other further relief as the Court deems proper.



                                     COUNT IV
              VIOLATION OF PENNSYLVANA HUMAN RELATIONS ACT
                     Discrimination and Retaliation due to Sex
                      Plaintiff Stacy Fisher v. All Defendants


      118.   Plaintiffs   re-allege and   incorporate by reference the          preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.



                                           25
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1    Filed 05/12/25    Page 26 of 55




       119.   Defendant RHD discriminated against Ms. Fisher due to her sex by

transferring her to a less favorable work location against her will and allowing the male

employee who harassed her to stay at her former work location.

       120.   Ms. Fisher engaged in protected activity under the PHRA as set forth in

this complaint, including, but not limited to:

          a. Reporting     sex    related   workplace   harassment,    when    she

              complained to RHD management about Mr. Collins, a male

              employee who had harassed her calling her “Ms. supervisor

              manager lady” on October 26, 2024. See Exhibit C.

          b. Emailing Defendant Branham on October 28, 2024, a complaint of

              discrimination and bias with the subject heading “Unwilling transfer”

              which is attached as Exhibit E.

          c. Telling Mr. Mafura on November 5, 2024, about Mr. Collins harassing

              her using misogynistic language and how Defendant Branham

              transferred Ms. Fisher against her will after Ms. Fisher complained

              to Defendant Branham about that sex-based harassment.

          d. Writing to Ms. Gunter on November 20, 2024, about staff sexually

              harassing eldly [sic] woman next door.”

       121.   Section 955(e) of the PHRA prohibits “any person, employer, employment

agency, labor organization, or employee to aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce the doing

of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice.”




                                             26
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1      Filed 05/12/25   Page 27 of 55




       122.    Defendants RHD, Branham and McGriff engaged in materially adverse

retaliation against Ms. Fisher for her protected activity as set forth in this complaint,

including, but not limited to:

            a. Transferring her to a less favorable work location against her will;

            b. Refusing to allow her to work requested hours;

            c. Failing to pay her properly for time worked;

            d. Harassing her in her workplace and spreading false rumors about

               her to other staff members;

            e. Failing to properly investigate or respond to her claims of

               discrimination and retaliation;

            f. Suspending her from employment on or about December 14, 2024;

            g. Terminating her employment on or about January 10, 2025.

       123.    There was a causal connection between Ms. Fisher’s protected activity

under the PHRA and the retaliated materially adverse retaliatory actions taken against

her by Defendants RHD, Branham and McGriff.

       124.    The retaliation endured by Ms. Fisher would dissuade a reasonable

employee from making complaints of discrimination and harassment.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Court to:

       A.      Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendants’ actions set

               forth herein are unlawful and in violation of the Pennsylvania Human

               Relations Act, 43 Pa. C.S.A. § 951 et seq.;

       B.      Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

               restraining Defendants, their successors, officers, agents, and



                                             27
Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP     Document 1       Filed 05/12/25    Page 28 of 55




     employees and those acting in participation with Defendants from

     engaging in any act or practice of discrimination against Plaintiff in

     violation of the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act and ordering

     Defendants to reinstate Plaintiff upon such terms and conditions as

     will return Plaintiff to the position she would have occupied had

     Defendants not unlawfully discriminated against her;

C.   Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for back

     pay in the amount of wages and fringe benefits in an amount of the

     financial loss determined to have been sustained by her;

D.   Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff for front pay in lieu of

     reinstatement;

E.   Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff awarding her liquidated or punitive

     damages to the extent allowable by law for the willful violation of the

     PHRA;

F.   Issue such orders and further relief as may be necessary and

     appropriate in order to redress the deprivation of rights and privileges

     sustained by the Plaintiff; and,

G.   Award Plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees together with the costs of

     this action.



                             Count V
        RETALIATION IN VIOLATION OF PENNSYLVANIA
     WHISTLEBLOWER LAW 43 P.S. 1421, et seq., as amended
            Plaintiff Stacy Fisher vs. All Defendants




                                    28
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1     Filed 05/12/25   Page 29 of 55




       125.   Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference the preceding paragraphs as is

set forth at length herein.

       126.   Ms. Fisher was required by Defendant’s RHD’s ethics policies to report

suspected waste, billing fraud, and neglect of consumers.

       127.   Ms. Fisher engaged in protected activity under the PAWBL by reporting

her concerns about the safety and wellbeing of the mentally disabled consumers who she

was assigned to work with during her employment with Defendant RHD to both RHD

management and the Commonwealth investigators who investigated Defendant RHD’s

facilities in November of 2024.

       128.   Ms. Fisher’s protected activity involved reporting fraud involving

government funds to RHD’s Hillary Mufasa in early November of 2024, telling him that

consumers were claiming they were not able to communicate with their support

coordinators, but the coordinators were claiming they were meeting in person with the

consumers and submitting bills for work Ms. Fisher did not believe they were doing.

       129.   Ms. Fisher also reported to RHD’s Kelly McManus and later Hillary Mufasa

that a female outside contractor from One Well had taken a male consumer to a friend’s

house and made him take a shower at the friend’s house which made the consumer very

upset and feel violated. The contractors were taking the consumers to places the

contractors wanted to go, when they were supposed to be going to places the consumers

wanted to go. This was a potential issue of waste and fraud because the outside

contractor was not providing the services they were supposed to provide. She also

reported this to the investigators from the Commonwealth who visited the Coles site in

November or 2024.



                                          29
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 30 of 55




       130.   Ms. Fisher’s protected activity also included telling Hillary Mufasa

Defendant Branham was ignoring complaints from a consumer about how another RHD

staff member made him uncomfortable and failed to investigate his complaint. Defendant

RHD’s rules state that if a consumer does not feel comfortable working with an employee

they have the right to request a change.

       131.   Defendants were aware that Ms. Fisher engaged in protected activity

under the PAWBL.

       132.   Defendants retaliated against Ms. Fisher because she engaged in

protected activity under the PAWBL, including, but not limited to:

          a. Refusing to allow her to work requested hours;

          b. Failing to pay her properly for time worked;

          c. Harassing her in her workplace and spreading false rumors about

              her to other staff members;

          d. Failing to properly investigate or respond to her claims of

              discrimination and retaliation;

          e. Suspending her from employment on or about December 14, 2024;

              and

          f. Terminating her employment on or about January 10, 2025.

       133.   The actions of Defendants by and through their agents, servants, and

employees, constitute a violation of the PAWBL.

       134.   As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ violation of the PAWBL Ms.

Fisher has suffered lost wages, suffered emotional distress, mental anguish, humiliation,

loss of life’s pleasures, pain and suffering, and has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.



                                            30
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1    Filed 05/12/25     Page 31 of 55




       135.   Ms. Fisher is now suffering, and will continue to suffer, irreparable injury

and monetary damages, as a result of Defendants’ unlawful acts, unless this Court grants

the relief requested herein.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Court to:

       A.     Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that the retaliatory practices

              set forth herein are unlawful and in violation of the Pennsylvania

              Whistleblower Law, 43 P.S. 1421, et seq.

       B.     Enjoying and permanently restraining the violations alleged herein;

       C.     Compensatory damages to make Ms. Fisher whole for past and

              future lost earnings, benefits and earning capacity;

       D.     Compensatory damages to Ms. Fisher for past and future emotional

              distress, mental anguish, humiliation, loss of life’s pleasures, and

              pain and suffering;

       E.     Punitive damages;

       F.     Reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs; and

       G.     Such other and further relief as this Court deems appropriate.



                                    COUNT VI
     Pennsylvania Wage Payment and Collection Law Violations and Retaliation
                      43 Pa. Stat. Ann. §§ 260.3, et seq.
                   Plaintiff Stacy Fisher vs. Defendant RHD


       136.   Plaintiffs   re-allege and   incorporate by reference the        preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.




                                            31
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1      Filed 05/12/25     Page 32 of 55




       137.   At all times material herein, Ms. Fisher was entitled to the rights, protections

and benefits provided under Pennsylvania Wage Payment and Collection Law

("PWPCL"), 43 Pa. Stat. Ann. §§ 260.3, et seq

       138.   Defendant RHD failed and refused to pay Ms. Fisher her agreed upon

wages, including not paying her for some of the hours she worked, not paying overtime

when required to do so and failing to pay her in a timely manner for hours she worked, all

of which violated the PWPCL.

       139.   At all relevant times, Defendant RHD has been aware of the provisions of

the PWPCL. Defendant RHD’s actions and omissions as alleged herein were knowing,

willful, bad faith, and reckless violations of the PWPCL.

       140.   As a result of the aforesaid willful violations of the PWPCL, compensation

has been unlawfully withheld by Defendant RHD from Ms. Fisher for which Defendant

RHD is liable pursuant to the PWPCL, together with an additional equal amount as

liquidated damages, interest, reasonable attorneys’ fees and the costs of this action.

       141.   The employment and work records for Ms. Fisher are in the exclusive

possession, custody and control of Defendant RHD, so she is unable to state at this time

the exact amounts owing to her.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Court to:

       A.     Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that the practices set forth

              herein are unlawful and in violation of the Pennsylvania Wage

              Payment and Collection Law

       B.     Enjoying and permanently restraining the violations alleged herein;




                                             32
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1     Filed 05/12/25     Page 33 of 55




       C.      Compensatory damages to make Ms. Fisher whole for past and

               future lost earnings, benefits and earning capacity;

       D.      Liquidated damages;

       E.      Reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs; and

       F.      Such other and further relief as this Court deems appropriate.



                                         COUNT VII
                           Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance
                              Phila. Code § 9-1101, et seq.
                         Discrimination and Retaliation due to Sex
                        Plaintiff Stacy Fisher vs. Defendant RHD


       142.    Plaintiffs   re-allege and    incorporate by reference the       preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

       143.    Defendant RHD discriminated against Ms. Fisher due to her sex by

transferring her to a less favorable work location against her will and allowing the male

employee who harassed her to stay at her former work location.

       144.    Ms. Fisher engaged in protected activity under the PFPO as set forth in

this complaint, including, but not limited to:

            a. Reporting     sex   related   workplace   harassment,    when    she

               complained to RHD management about Mr. Collins, a male

               employee who had harassed her calling her “Ms. supervisor

               manager lady” on October 26, 2024. See Exhibit C.

            b. Emailing Defendant Branham on October 28, 2024, a complaint of

               discrimination and bias with the subject heading “Unwilling transfer”

               which is attached as Exhibit E.

                                              33
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1     Filed 05/12/25    Page 34 of 55




          c. Telling Mr. Mafura on November 5, 2024, about Mr. Collins harassing

               her using misogynistic language and how Defendant Branham

               transferred Ms. Fisher against her will after Ms. Fisher complained

               to Defendant Branham about that sex-based harassment.

          d. Writing to Ms. Gunter on November 20, 2024, about staff sexually

               harassing eldly [sic] woman next door.”

       145.    Defendant RHD engaged in materially adverse retaliation against Ms.

Fisher for her protected activity as set forth in this complaint, including, but not limited

to:

          a. Transferring her to a less favorable work location against her will;

          b. Refusing to allow her to work requested hours;

          c. Failing to pay her properly for time worked;

          d. Harassing her in her workplace and spreading false rumors about

               her to other staff members;

          e. Failing to properly investigate or respond to her claims of

               discrimination and retaliation;

          f. Suspending her from employment on or about December 14, 2024;

          g. Terminating her employment on or about January 10, 2025.

       146.    There was a causal connection between Ms. Fisher’s protected activity

under the PFPO and Defendant RHD’s materially adverse retaliatory actions taken

against her.

       147.    The retaliation endured by Ms. Fisher would dissuade a reasonable

employee from making complaints of discrimination and harassment.



                                             34
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP         Document 1      Filed 05/12/25   Page 35 of 55




       148.    Defendant RHD retaliated against Ms. Fisher for engaging in protected

activity in violation of the PFPO.

       149.   Defendant’s conduct was outrageous because of the defendant's evil

motive or its reckless indifference to the rights of others.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Court to:

       A.     Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendants’ actions set

              forth herein are unlawful and in violation of the City of Philadelphia

              Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) (PFPO)

       B.     Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

              restraining Defendants, their successors, officers, agents, and

              employees and those acting in participation with Defendants from

              engaging in any act or practice of discrimination against Plaintiff in

              violation of the City of Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance and

              ordering Defendants to reinstate Plaintiff upon such terms and

              conditions as will return Plaintiff to the position she would have

              occupied had Defendants not unlawfully discriminated against her;

       C.     Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for back

              pay in the amount of wages and fringe benefits in an amount of the

              financial loss determined to have been sustained by her;

       D.     Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff for front pay in lieu of

              reinstatement;




                                              35
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP         Document 1    Filed 05/12/25     Page 36 of 55




      E.     Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff awarding her liquidated and/or

             punitive damages to the extent allowable by law for the willful

             violation of the PFPO;

      F.     Issue such orders and further relief as may be necessary and

             appropriate in order to redress the deprivation of rights and privileges

             sustained by the Plaintiff; and,

      G.     Award Plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees together with the costs of

             this action.



                                          COUNT VIII
                                          Defamation
                          Plaintiff Stacy Fisher vs. All Defendants


      150.   Plaintiffs     re-allege and   incorporate by reference the         preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

      151.   Ms. Fisher is a private individual as defined by applicable Pennsylvania

defamation law.

      152.   While acting in her capacity as management employee of Defendant RHD,

Defendant McGriff knowingly and falsely and/or with reckless disregard for the truth,

stated that Ms. Fisher had committed theft or misappropriation of RHD or client property,

cash, credit, or funds. during a Zoom call on or about January 13, 2025, which included

at least one other party, Amira Thomas.

      153.   Upon information and belief, Defendant McGriff told additional individuals

that Ms. Fisher had committed theft or misappropriation of RHD or client property, cash,




                                             36
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1      Filed 05/12/25     Page 37 of 55




credit, or funds, while acting in her capacity as management employee of Defendant

RHD.

       154.   While acting in her capacity as management employee of Defendant RHD,

Defendant McGriff caused a letter to be written dated January 10, 2025, that knowingly

and falsely and/or with reckless disregard for the truth, stated that Ms. Fisher had

committed theft or misappropriation of RHD or client property, cash, credit, or funds.

Exhibit R.

       155.   Upon information and belief, Defendant McGriff published this letter by

allowing one or more other people to read it.

       156.   Pleading in the alternative, Ms. Fisher alleges that Defendant McGriff’s

defamatory statements may have been made negligently without exercising reasonable

care in establishing their accuracy.

       157.   Upon information and belief, while acting in her capacity as management

employee of Defendant RHD, Defendant Branham knowingly and falsely and/or with

reckless disregard for the truth told others that Ms. Fisher had committed theft or

misappropriation of RHD or client property, cash, credit, or funds.

       158.   Pleading in the alternative, Ms. Fisher alleges that Defendant Branham’s

defamatory statements may have been made negligently without exercising reasonable

care in establishing their accuracy.

       159.   Ms. Fisher had not committed theft or misappropriation of RHD or client

property, cash, credit, or funds.

       160.   The    false   accusation   that    Ms.   Fisher   had   committed   theft   or

misappropriation of RHD or client property, cash, credit, or funds is defamation per se.



                                             37
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1       Filed 05/12/25     Page 38 of 55




       161.   The   false   accusation    that     Ms.   Fisher   had   committed   theft   or

misappropriation of RHD or client property, cash, credit, or funds resulted in harm to Ms.

Fisher including the termination of her employment and harm to her personal and

professional reputation, resulting in past, present and future loss of earnings and benefits,

emotional distress, mental anguish and suffering, personal humiliation, loss of life’s

pleasures, pain and suffering, and has incurring attorneys’ fees and costs.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Court to:

       A.     Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendants’ actions set

              forth herein were defamatory.

       B.     Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

              restraining Defendants, their successors, officers, agents, and

              employees and those acting in participation with Defendants from

              engaging in any act or practice of defamation against Plaintiff;

       C.     Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for past

              and future economic losses, including amount of wages and fringe

              benefits in an amount of the financial loss determined to have been

              sustained by her;

       D.     Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for past

              and future harm to Plaintiff’s personal and professional reputation,

              emotional distress, mental anguish and suffering, personal

              humiliation, loss of life’s pleasures, pain and suffering.




                                              38
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP         Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 39 of 55




       E.      Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for

               punitive damages if the defamatory statements were made

               knowingly and falsely or with reckless disregard for the truth.

       F.      Issue such orders and further relief as may be necessary and

               appropriate in order to redress the deprivation of rights and privileges

               sustained by the Plaintiff.



                                         COUNT IX
                            Title VII, 42 U.S. C. $ 2000e-3(a)
                     Retaliation for Reporting Sexual Harassment
                Plaintiff Braheem Boardley-Murray vs. Defendant RHD


       162.    Plaintiffs re-allege and      incorporate by reference the          preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

       163.    Mr. Boardley-Murray engaged in protected activity under Title VII as set

forth in this complaint, including, but not limited to:

            a. On or about October 31, 2024, Mr. Boardley-Murray contacted his

               director Defendant McGriff and reported sexual harassment because

               his co-worker Alexis was telling people that he was sleeping with his

               cousin, Ms. Fisher, which was not true.

            b. In early November of 2024 Mr. Boardley-Murray met with Mr. Hillary

               Mafura, who was conducting an investigation of the Coles site and

               discussed his sexual harassment concerns about the rumor Alexis

               was spreading about him.




                                              39
        Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP          Document 1    Filed 05/12/25   Page 40 of 55




               c. On or about November 20, 2024, reporting to Mr. Briley that a woman

                  who lived next door to the group home, alleged that an RHD

                  employee Kyle Murray (no relation) was sexually harassing her. Mr.

                  Briley reported the sexual harassment to Defendant Branham and

                  Defendant McGriff.

        164.      Defendant RHD engaged in materially adverse retaliation against Mr.

Boardley-Murray for his protected activity as set forth in this complaint, including, but

not limited to:

               a. Harassing him in her workplace and spreading false rumors about

                  him to other staff members;

               b. Failing to properly investigate or respond to his claims of

                  discrimination and retaliation;

               c. Putting him on administrative leave on or about December 23, 2024;

                  and

               d. Terminating his employment on or about January 10, 2025.

        165.      There was a causal connection between Mr. Boardley-Murray’s protected

activity under the Title VII and Defendant RHD’s materially adverse retaliatory actions

taken against him.

        166.      The retaliation endured by Mr. Boardley-Murray would dissuade a

reasonable employee from making complaints of discrimination, harassment, and

retaliation.

        167.       Defendant RHD retaliated against Mr. Boardley-Murray for engaging in

protected activity in violation of Section 704(a) of Title VII, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3(a).



                                                40
      Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP            Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 41 of 55




WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Braheem Boardley-Murray respectfully requests this Court:

      A.         Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendant RHD’s

                 actions as set forth in this Complaint are unlawful and violate Title

                 VII.

      B.         Issue equitable/injunctive relief including:

           (1)      Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

                    restraining Defendant RHD, its officers, agents, employees, and

                    those acting in participation with Defendant RHD, from engaging

                    in any act or practice of harassment, discrimination, and/or

                    retaliation against employees in violation of Title VII.

           (2)      Order Defendant RHD to provide training to all employees on

                    harassment, discrimination, and retaliation prevention and

                    related compliance under Title VII—with the training specifics to

                    be tailored to the problems, deficiencies, and gaps that the

                    evidence shows.

           (3)      Order Defendant RHD to deliver to its employees a copy of the

                    jury verdict and trial court judgment.

           (4)      Order Defendant RHD to report on the manner of compliance with

                    the terms of any final order for non-monetary equitable relief

                    issued under Title VII—with the reporting specifics to be tailored

                    based on the evidence.

           (5)      Order Defendant RHD to reinstate Mr. Boardley-Murray upon

                    such terms and conditions as will put him in the position he would



                                                41
Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1    Filed 05/12/25    Page 42 of 55




        have occupied had Defendant RHD not unlawfully discriminated

        against him.

C.   Enter judgment in favor of Mr. Boardley-Murray and against

     Defendant RHD for back pay, including wages and fringe benefits.

D.   Enter judgment in favor of Mr. Boardley-Murray for front pay in lieu

     of reinstatement.

E.   Enter judgment in favor of Mr. Boardley-Murray and against

     Defendant RHD for compensatory damages for emotional distress,

     career damage, loss of earnings capacity, mental anguish,

     humiliation, embarrassment, and loss of dignity.

F.   Enter judgment in favor of Mr. Boardley-Murray and against

     Defendant RHD for punitive damages, as allowable by law.

G.   Award Mr. Boardley-Murray reasonable attorney’s fees together with

     the costs of this action.

H.   Award Mr. Boardley-Murray pre-judgment and post-judgment

     interest.

I.   Enter judgment in favor of Mr. Boardley-Murray for any other

     monetary losses as a direct result of Defendant RHD’s violation of

     Title VII, including but not limited to negative tax consequence

     damages.

J.   Award such other and further legal and equitable relief as may be

     necessary and appropriate to redress fully the deprivation of Mr.




                                  42
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1     Filed 05/12/25    Page 43 of 55




             Boardley-Murray’s rights, to prevent their recurrence in the future

             and to protect other employees from such unlawful behavior.


                                       COUNT X
              VIOLATION OF PENNSYLVANA HUMAN RELATIONS ACT
                     Retaliation for Reporting Sexual Harassment
                 Plaintiff Braheem Boardley-Murray v. All Defendants


      168.   Plaintiffs   re-allege and    incorporate by reference the         preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

      169.   Mr. Boardley-Murray engaged in protected activity under the PHRA by

reporting sexual harassment as set forth in this complaint, including, but not limited to:

          a. On or about October 31, 2024, Mr. Boardley-Murray contacted his

             director Defendant McGriff and reported sexual harassment because

             his co-worker Alexis was telling people that he was sleeping with his

             cousin, Ms. Fisher, which was not true.

          b. In early November of 2024 Mr. Boardley-Murray met with Mr. Hillary

             Mafura, who was conducting an investigation of the Coles site and

             discussed his sexual harassment concerns about the rumor Alexis

             was spreading about him.

          c. On or about November 20, 2024, reporting to Mr. Briley that a woman

             who lived next door to the group home, alleged that an RHD

             employee Kyle Murray (no relation) was sexually harassing her. Mr.

             Briley reported the sexual harassment to Defendant Branham and

             Defendant McGriff.




                                            43
         Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1     Filed 05/12/25   Page 44 of 55




         170.    Section 955(e) of the PHRA prohibits “any person, employer, employment

agency, labor organization, or employee to aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce the doing

of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice.”

         171.    Defendants RHD, Branham and McGriff engaged in materially adverse

retaliation against Mr. Boardley-Murray for his protected activity as set forth in this

complaint, including, but not limited to:

              a. Harassing him in his workplace and spreading false rumors about

                 him to other staff members;

              b. Failing to properly investigate or respond to his claims of

                 discrimination and retaliation;

              c. Putting him on administrative leave on or about December 23, 2024;

                 and

              d. Terminating his employment on or about January 10, 2025.

         172.    There was a causal connection between Mr. Boardley-Murray’s protected

activity under the PHRA and the retaliated materially adverse retaliatory actions taken

against him by Defendants RHD, Branham and McGriff.

         173.    The retaliation endured by Mr. Boardley-Murray would dissuade a

reasonable e mp lo yee from making complaints of discrimination and harassment.

         WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Braheem Boardley-Murray respectfully requests this

Court:

         A.      Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendants’ actions set

                 forth herein are unlawful and in violation of the Pennsylvania Human

                 Relations Act, 43 Pa. C.S.A. § 951 et seq.;



                                               44
Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP     Document 1       Filed 05/12/25    Page 45 of 55




B.   Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

     restraining Defendants, their successors, officers, agents, and

     employees and those acting in participation with Defendants from

     engaging in any act or practice of discrimination against Mr.

     Boardley-Murray in violation of the Pennsylvania Human Relations

     Act and ordering Defendants to reinstate Plaintiff upon such terms

     and conditions as will return Plaintiff to the position he would have

     occupied had Defendants not unlawfully discriminated against him;

C.   Enter judgment in favor of Mr. Boardley-Murray, and against

     Defendants, for back pay in the amount of wages and fringe benefits

     in an amount of the financial loss determined to have been sustained

     by him;

D.   Enter judgment in favor of Mr. Boardley-Murray for front pay in lieu

     of reinstatement;

E.   Enter judgment in favor of Mr. Boardley-Murray awarding him

     liquidated or punitive damages to the extent allowable by law for the

     willful violation of the PHRA;

F.   Issue such orders and further relief as may be necessary and

     appropriate in order to redress the deprivation of rights and privileges

     sustained by the Plaintiff; and,

G.   Award Plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees together with the costs of

     this action.




                                      45
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1      Filed 05/12/25     Page 46 of 55




                                      Count XI
                 RETALIATION IN VIOLATION OF PENNSYLVANIA
              WHISTLEBLOWER LAW 43 P.S. 1421, et seq., as amended
                Plaintiff Braheem Boardley-Murray vs. All Defendants


       174.   Plaintiffs incorporate herein by reference the preceding paragraphs as is

set forth at length herein.

       175.   Mr. Boardley-Murray was required by Defendant’s RHD’s ethics policies to

report suspected waste, billing fraud, and neglect of consumers.

       176.   Mr. Boardley-Murray engaged in protected activity under the PAWBL,

which included, but is not limited to providing the Commonwealth investigators with

information on the following issues involving potential waste, fraud and neglect:

          a. One of the consumers was not being given eye drops that he needed

              by RHD staff members Alexis and Steven Collins, and they were

              falsely recording in a book that they had been giving the medication.

              They had falsely claimed to have given the eye drops even on days

              when the medication was not available to be given.

          b. Consumers were claiming they were not able to meet with their

              support coordinators, but the coordinators were claiming they were

              meeting in person with the consumers and submitting bills for work

              Mr. Boardley-Murray did not believe they were doing.

          c. Consumers had complaints that were being ignored because

              Defendant McGriff and Kelly McManus, another RHD manager, were

              preventing the consumers from making their complaints known.




                                            46
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1      Filed 05/12/25       Page 47 of 55




          d. RHD employee Steven Collins was taking consumers out to shop but

              then taking the consumer’s money and using it for himself.

          e. A consumer reported that an outside contractor from One Well had

              taken the consumer to a friend’s house and made him take a shower

              at the friend’s house which made the consumer very upset and feel

              violated. The contractors were taking the consumers to places the

              contractors wanted to go, when they were supposed to be going to

              places the consumers wanted to go. This was a potential issue of

              waste and fraud because the outside contractor was not providing

              the services they were supposed to provide.

       177.   Mr. Boardley-Murray told RHD investigator Hillary Mufasa in November

2024 about these same concerns.

       178.   On December 11, Mr. Boardley-Murray communicated with Michelle

Holmes, an RHD supervisor about a potential neglect incident where RHD employee

Alexis had started a night shift at the Cole site and forced a consumer who had been

watching TV in the living room to go into his room, shut his door and told the consumer

not to come out so she could sleep during her shift.

       179.   Defendants were aware that Mr. Boardley-Murray engaged in protected

activity under the PAWBL.

       180.   Defendants retaliated against Mr. Boardley-Murray because he engaged

in protected activity under the PAWBL, including, but not limited to:

          a. Harassing him in his workplace and spreading false rumors about

              him to other staff members;



                                            47
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1     Filed 05/12/25    Page 48 of 55




            b. Failing to properly investigate or respond to his claims of

               discrimination and retaliation;

            c. Putting him on administrative leave on or about December 23, 2024;

               and

            d. Terminating his employment on or about January 10, 2025.

       181.    The actions of Defendants by and through their agents, servants, and

employees, constitute a violation of the PAWBL.

       182.    As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ violation of the PAWBL Mr.

Boardley-Murray has suffered lost wages, suffered emotional distress, mental anguish,

humiliation, loss of life’s pleasures, pain and suffering, and has incurred attorneys’ fees

and costs.

       183.    Mr. Boardley-Murray is now suffering, and will continue to suffer,

irreparable injury and monetary damages, as a result of Defendants’ unlawful acts, unless

this Court grants the relief requested herein.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Court to:

       A.      Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that the retaliatory practices

               set forth herein are unlawful and in violation of the Pennsylvania

               Whistleblower Law, 43 P.S. 1421, et seq.;

       B.      Enjoying and permanently restraining the violations alleged herein;

       C.      Compensatory damages to make Mr. Boardley-Murray whole for

               past and future lost earnings, benefits and earning capacity;




                                             48
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1      Filed 05/12/25   Page 49 of 55




      D.      Compensatory damages to Mr. Boardley-Murray for past and future

              emotional distress, mental anguish, humiliation, loss of life’s

              pleasures, and pain and suffering;

      E.      Punitive damages;

      F.      Reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs; and

      G.      Such other and further relief as this Court deems appropriate.



                                        COUNT XII
                           Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance
                              Phila. Code § 9-1101, et seq.
                     Retaliation due to reporting Sexual Harassment
                Plaintiff Braheem Boardley-Murray vs. Defendant RHD


      184.    Plaintiffs   re-allege and   incorporate by reference the         preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

      185.    Mr. Boardley-Murray engaged in protected activity under the PFPO by

reporting sexual harassment as set forth in this complaint, including, but not limited to:

           a. On or about October 31, 2024, Mr. Boardley-Murray contacted his

              director Defendant McGriff and reported sexual harassment because

              his co-worker Alexis was telling people that he was sleeping with his

              cousin, Ms. Fisher, which was not true.

           b. In early November Mr. Boardley-Murray met with Mr. Hillary Mafura,

              who was conducting an investigation of the Coles site and discussed

              his sexual harassment concerns about the rumor Alexis was

              spreading about him.




                                            49
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1       Filed 05/12/25   Page 50 of 55




           c. On or about November 20, 2024, reporting to Mr. Briley that a woman

              who lived next door to the group home, alleged that an RHD

              employee Kyle Murray (no relation) was sexually harassing her. Mr.

              Briley reported the sexual harassment to Defendant Branham and

              Defendant McGriff.

       186.   Defendant RHD engaged in materially adverse retaliation against Mr.

Boardley-Murray for his protected activity as set forth in this complaint, including, but

not limited to:

           a. Harassing him in his workplace and spreading false rumors about

              him to other staff members;

           b. Failing to properly investigate or respond to his claims of

              discrimination and retaliation;

           c. Putting him on administrative leave on or about December 23, 2024;

           d. Terminating his employment on or about January 10, 2025.

       187.   There was a causal connection between Mr. Boardley-Murray’s protected

activity under the PFPO and Defendant RHD’s materially adverse retaliatory actions

taken against him.

       188.   The retaliation endured by Mr. Boardley-Murray would dissuade a

reasonable employee from making complaints of discrimination and harassment.

       189.       Defendant RHD retaliated against Mr. Boardley-Murray for engaging in

protected activity in violation of the PFPO.

       190.   Defendant’s conduct was outrageous because of the defendant's evil

motive or its reckless indifference to the rights of others.



                                              50
Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1       Filed 05/12/25    Page 51 of 55




WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Court to:

A.    Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendants’ actions set

      forth herein are unlawful and in violation of the City of Philadelphia

      Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) (PFPO)

B.    Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

      restraining Defendants, their successors, officers, agents, and

      employees and those acting in participation with Defendants from

      engaging in any act or practice of discrimination against Plaintiff in

      violation of the City of Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance and

      ordering Defendants to reinstate Plaintiff upon such terms and

      conditions as will return Plaintiff to the position he would have

      occupied had Defendants not unlawfully discriminated against him;

C.    Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for back

      pay in the amount of wages and fringe benefits in an amount of the

      financial loss determined to have been sustained by him;

D.    Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff for front pay in lieu of

      reinstatement;

E.    Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff awarding him liquidated and/or

      punitive damages to the extent allowable by law for the willful

      violation of the PFPO;

F.    Issue such orders and further relief as may be necessary and

      appropriate in order to redress the deprivation of rights and privileges

      sustained by the Plaintiff; and,



                                     51
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1    Filed 05/12/25   Page 52 of 55




      G.     Award Plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees together with the costs of

             this action.



                                     COUNT XIII
                                      Defamation
               Plaintiff Braheem Boardley-Murray vs.vs. All Defendants

      191.   Plaintiffs     re-allege and   incorporate by reference the      preceding

paragraphs as though fully set forth herein.

      192.   Mr. Boardley-Murray is a private individual as defined by applicable

Pennsylvania defamation law.

      193.   While acting in her capacity as management employee of Defendant RHD,

Defendant McGriff knowingly and falsely and/or with reckless disregard for the truth

caused a letter to be written dated January 10, 2025, claiming Mr. Boardley-Murray

violated safety or health policies and/or negligent/unsafe behaviors that may endanger

another person, destruction of property and/or equipment. Exhibit S.

      194.   Upon information and belief, Defendant McGriff published this letter by

allowing one or more other people to read it.

      195.   Upon information and belief, while acting in her capacity as management

employee of Defendant RHD, Defendant McGriff knowingly and falsely and/or with

reckless disregard for the truth told others that Mr. Boardley-Murray violated safety or

health policies and/or negligent/unsafe behaviors that may endanger another person,

destruction of property and/or equipment.




                                            52
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP      Document 1      Filed 05/12/25    Page 53 of 55




      196.   Pleading in the alternative, Mr. Boardley-Murray alleges that Defendant

McGriff’s defamatory statements may have been made negligently without exercising

reasonable care in establishing their accuracy.

      197.   Upon information and belief, while acting in her capacity as management

employee of Defendant RHD, Defendant Branham knowingly and falsely and/or with

reckless disregard for the truth told others that Mr. Boardley-Murray violated safety or

health policies and/or negligent/unsafe behaviors that may endanger another person,

destruction of property and/or equipment.

      198.   Pleading in the alternative, Mr. Boardley-Murray alleges that Defendant

Branham’s defamatory statements may have been made negligently without exercising

reasonable care in establishing their accuracy.

      199.   Mr. Boardley-Murray had not violated safety or health policies and/or

negligent/unsafe behaviors that may endanger another person, destruction of property

and/or equipment.

      200.   The false accusation that Mr. Boardley-Murray violated safety or health

policies and/or negligent/unsafe behaviors that may endanger another person,

destruction of property and/or equipment is defamation per se.

      201.   The false accusation that Mr. Boardley-Murray violated safety or health

policies and/or negligent/unsafe behaviors that may endanger another person,

destruction of property and/or equipment resulted in harm to Mr. Boardley-Murray

including the termination of his employment and harm to his personal and professional

reputation, resulting in past, present and future loss of earnings and benefits, emotional




                                            53
       Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP        Document 1      Filed 05/12/25     Page 54 of 55




distress, mental anguish and suffering, personal humiliation, loss of life’s pleasures, pain

and suffering, and incurring attorneys’ fees and costs.

       WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Court to:

       A.     Issue a Declaratory Judgment declaring that Defendants’ actions set

              forth herein were defamatory.

       B.     Issue preliminary and permanent injunctions enjoining and

              restraining Defendants, their successors, officers, agents, and

              employees and those acting in participation with Defendants from

              engaging in any act or practice of defamation against Plaintiff;

       C.     Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for past

              and future economic losses, including amount of wages and fringe

              benefits in an amount of the financial loss determined to have been

              sustained by her;

       D.     Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for past

              and future harm to Plaintiff’s personal and professional reputation,

              emotional distress, mental anguish and suffering, personal

              humiliation, loss of life’s pleasures, pain and suffering.

       E.     Enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff, and against Defendants, for

              punitive damages if the defamatory statements were made

              knowingly and falsely or with reckless disregard for the truth.

       F.     Issue such orders and further relief as may be necessary and

              appropriate in order to redress the deprivation of rights and privileges

              sustained by the Plaintiff.



                                              54
      Case 2:25-cv-02401-JP       Document 1       Filed 05/12/25    Page 55 of 55




                                    JURY DEMAND

     Plaintiffs hereby demand a jury to try all claims triable by jury.



                                                 Respectfully submitted,




                                                    Joseph F. Schwartz, Esq.
                                                 By:______________________
Date: May 12, 2025                               SILVER & SILVER
                                                 Joseph F. Schwartz, Esquire
                                                 Attorney for Plaintiff Brittany Greenleaf
                                                 Identification No.: 87550
                                                 42 W. Lancaster Ave., Third Floor
                                                 Ardmore, PA 19003
                                                 (610) 658 – 1900




                                            55
