Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/68363581/1/delaware-county-prison-employees-independent-union-v-delaware-county/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in Delaware County Prison Employees Independent Union v. Delaware County Pennsylvania (E.D. Pa., 2:24-cv-01215) – CourtListener.com

        Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 1 of 41




DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
TIMOTHY J. PROL, ESQUIRE
Attorney ID No. 319524
1835 Market Street, Suite 2950
Philadelphia, PA 19103
(267) 857-0834
tim@dereksmithlaw.com
Attorneys for Plaintiffs

                    IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                 FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


Delaware County Prison Employees
Independent Union
                      Plaintiff,

       v.

Delaware County Pennsylvania

Jail Oversight Board of Delaware County
Pennsylvania

George W. Hill Correctional Facility
                                                      Civil Action No.
Kevin Madden, individually and in his
official capacity as Delaware County                  CIVIL ACTION COMPLAINT
Councilman and Chair of the
Jail Oversight Board                                  JURY TRIAL DEMANDED

Laura Williams, Warden - individually and in
her official capacity as chief administrator of
the George W. Hill Correctional Facility

Cheyenne Marquette, individually and in her
official capacity as Human Resources
Manager of the George W. Hill Correctional
Facility


                         Defendants.




                                                  1
            Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 2 of 41




                                      CIVIL COMPLAINT

       PLAINTIFFS, by and through their attorneys, The Derek Smith Law Group, PLLC, hereby

bring this civil action pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1983 and § 1988 for monetary, declaratory, and

injunctive relief. This is a complaint for damages based upon federal civil rights violations and

retaliation by DEFENDANTS against PLAINTIFFS. DEFENDANTS, acting under color of State

law, systematically and on a sustained basis violated PLAINTIFFS’ rights under the First, Fifth,

and Fourteenth Amendments. PLAINTIFFS allege and aver in support thereof:



                                    NATURE OF THE CASE

       1.       This action arises out of the unlawful and hostile violation of the rights of

PLAINTIFF’S Members under the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments by DEFENDANTS

since DEFENDANTS subjected, and/or caused to be subjected, PLAINTIFFS’ Members, and by

extension PLAINTIFFS to the deprivation of myriad rights, privileges, and immunities secured by

the Constitution and laws as set forth more fully below.


       2.       By terminating Frank Kwaning, Ashley Gwaku, Kenneth Demonfonte, Najah

Branham, Ian Lofton, Morris Maanneh, Abdoul Diallo, Dejah Henry, Malverna Hymann,

Francisca Veney, Nathaniel Savage, Charles Sevor, Onyx Robinson, and Matthew Wiedman by

refusing, failing, and neglecting to "hire" them in the positions they held in good standing prior to

the jail's day-to-day functions being re-assumed by Delaware County, DEFENDANTS deprived

them of their Constitutional rights to due process under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to

the United States Constitution.




                                                 2
            Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 3 of 41




       3.       Further, DEFENDANTS materially negatively impacted Union operations and

actions by terminating the President and Vice President of the Union, Kwaning and Gwaku, and

by preventing them from representing Union Members on jail grounds.


       4.       By refusing, failing, and neglecting to allow Plaintiff Kwaning and Plaintiff Gwaku

on the premises of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility, DEFENDANTS deprived them and

DCPEIU of their Constitutional right to freedom of speech, freedom of association, and freedom

to petition the government under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.


       5.       By refusing, failing, and neglecting to deduct dues from DCPEIU Members, even

after receiving more than one hundred (more than 100) signed cards directing her to do so,

DEFENDANTS deprived them of their Constitutional right to freedom of speech, freedom of

association, and freedom to petition under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.


       6.       PLAINTIFFS bring this action charging that DEFENDANTS violated

PLAINTIFFS’ rights and PLAINTIFFS’ Members rights pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1983 and 42

U.S.C. § 1988, seeking damages to redress the injuries PLAINTIFFS and their Members suffered

as a result of being wrongfully and unlawfully deprived of their constitutional rights by

DEFENDANTS.



                                            PARTIES

       7.       PLAINTIFF Delaware County Prison Employees Independent Union (DCPEIU) is

an employe organization under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, specifically

Section 301(3) of PERA.




                                                 3
            Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 4 of 41




       8.       Members of DCPEIU include Corrections Officers currently and formerly

employed by DEFENDANT Delaware County as well as Corrections Officers formerly employed

by DEFENDANT Delaware County through private subcontracting with Community Education

Centers, Inc./The Geo Group.


       9.       PLAINTIFFS’ Members are citizens or residents of the United States of America

and of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania who have wrongfully been deprived of their civil rights

under the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States as a

direct and proximate result of DEFENDANTS’ official, targeted, and sustained actions. Since

there are a substantial number of individuals negatively impacted by the unlawful actions of

DEFENDANTS in this matter, Plaintiff will seek to amend this Complaint with additional

Plaintiffs pursuant to F.R.C.P. 15 if, and as, they become identified and available.


       10.      As set forth more fully below, DCPEIU Members have legally protected interests,

namely due process, free speech, and other rights under the United States Constitution, and have

been injured by Defendants.


       11.      The conduct engaged in by Defendants directly caused the injuries which have been

and are being suffered by DCPEIU Members.


       12.      A favorable decision herein will redress the injuries by remedying the damage done

to DCPEIU Members and will prevent further injury and damages from being imposed upon

DCPEIU Members by Defendants.


       13.      By enforcing the rights of DCPEIU Members, DCPEIU, which has itself been

injured by Defendants' unlawful actions, will be unhindered in its service to its Members.



                                                 4
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 5 of 41




       14.     DEFENDANT Delaware County is a public entity duly organized and existing

pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with a business address at 201 West

Front Street, Media, PA 19063.


       15.     DEFENDANT Delaware County and its Council are empowered by

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania law to operate and maintain the George Hill Correctional Facility

located in Delaware County, PA.


       16.     DEFENDANT Jail Oversight Board of Delaware County Pennsylvania (hereafter

Jail Oversight Board or "JOB"), is located at 500 Cheyney Road Thornton, PA 19373 and has a

mailing address of P.O. Box 23 Thornton, PA 19373.


       17.     Chapter 86 of the Delaware County Code establishes and details the Jail Oversight

Board, its scope, composition, powers and duties, and enumerates other administrative powers.


       18.     The Jail Oversight Board is established according to the provisions of Title 61,

Subchapter B, of the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes via Resolution No. 2019-12.


       19.     The Jail Oversight Board's administrative powers and duties include the operation

and maintenance of the George Hill Correctional Facility (the "jail") and all associated alternative

housing facilities, the oversight of the health and safekeeping of inmates and the confirmation of

the Executive Director's selection of a Warden.


       20.     The Jail Oversight Board's operations are required to be consistent with law.


       21.     The Jail Oversight Board is required to ensure that the jail is being operated in

accordance with its regulations and the laws and regulations of the Commonwealth of

Pennsylvania and of the United States of America.

                                                  5
          Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 6 of 41




       22.       DEFENDANT George W. Hill Correctional Facility is the county correctional

center for Delaware County, PA.


       23.       DEFENDANT George W. Hill Correctional Facility is the primary facility where

adults are held after arrest, while awaiting trial, or when serving a county sentence of fewer than

two (2) years.


       24.       DEFENDANT George W. Hill Correctional Facility is owned and operated by

DEFENDANT Delaware County.


       25.       At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Kevin Madden (hereafter DEFENDANT

Madden) is on the County Council and is Chairman of the Jail Oversight Board.


       26.       DEFENDANT Madden, as Chair of the Jail Oversight Board, had policymaking

authority over DEFENDANT Williams and others, including Corrections Officers, staff, and

administration in the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.


       27.       DEFENDANT Laura Williams (hereafter DEFENDANT Williams) is the Warden

of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.


       28.       At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams was empowered by the County of

Delaware to enforce law, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures in the George W. Hill

Correctional Facility.


       29.       At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams was empowered to take official state

action in her day-to-day tasks which included the administration and operation of the George W.

Hill Correctional Facility.




                                                6
          Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 7 of 41




       30.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams took the actions she took as part of

her professional duties and responsibilities.


       31.     At all times relevant, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, through the authority of

the Delaware County Commissioners, bestowed a mantle of authority upon DEFENDANT

Williams that enhanced the power of her actions.


       32.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams was an official of DEFENDANT

Delaware County Pennsylvania and was acting under color of state law.


       33.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams performed her actions against

Plaintiffs and their Members while clothed with the authority of the state.


       34.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams was acting in her official capacity

and/or while exercising her responsibilities pursuant to state law.


       35.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams was acting for work-related reasons.


       36.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams's actions were related to her job as a

government official.


       37.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams's actions took place within the

geographic area covered by DEFENDANT Williams's department.


       38.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Williams used her official position to exert

influence over the Plaintiffs and their Members.


       39.     DEFENDANT Cheyenne Marquette (hereafter DEFENDANT Marquette) is the

Human Resources Manager or Coordinator of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.


                                                   7
           Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 8 of 41




       40.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette was empowered by Defendants to

enact and carry out the official policies, procedures, official personnel actions, and all human

resources activities in the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       41.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette was empowered to take official

state action in her day-to-day tasks which included the administration and operation of the human

resources and personnel operations of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       42.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette took the actions she took as part of

her professional duties and responsibilities.

       43.     At all times relevant, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, through the authority of

the Delaware County Commissioners and through Defendants Madden and Williams bestowed a

mantle of authority upon DEFENDANT Marquette that enhanced the power of her actions.

       44.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette was an official of DEFENDANT

Delaware County Pennsylvania and was acting under color of state law.

       45.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette performed her actions against

Plaintiffs and their Members while clothed with the authority of the state.

       46.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette was acting in her official capacity

and/or while exercising her responsibilities pursuant to state law.

       47.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette was acting for work-related

reasons.

       48.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette's actions were related to her job as

a government official.

       49.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette's actions took place within the

geographic area covered by DEFENDANT Marquette's department.



                                                 8
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 9 of 41




       50.      At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Marquette used her official position to exert

influence over the Plaintiffs and their Members.


                                 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

       51.      This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this matter as it involves a Federal

Question under 42 U.S.C. §1983 and §1988. Jurisdiction is proper in the Eastern District of

Pennsylvania based upon 28 U. S.C. §1331 and § 1343 (1-4).

       52.      Venue is appropriate before this Court as Defendants reside in the Eastern District

of Pennsylvania and all actions and omissions giving rise to this litigation occurred in the Eastern

District of Pennsylvania.



                                      MATERIAL FACTS

       53.      George W. Hill Correctional Facility is a publicly funded jail in Delaware County

Pennsylvania.

       54.      The Warden of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility is appointed by the

Delaware County Executive Director and is confirmed by the Jail Oversight Board.

       55.      The Warden serves at the pleasure of the County Executive Director and the County

Executive Director fixes the Warden's annual salary at a level deemed appropriate by the County

Executive Director.

       56.      The Warden reports to the Delaware County Executive Director and to the Jail

Oversight Board.

       57.      The Warden is required by law to give annual and monthly reports to the Jail

Oversight Board regarding the population, conditions and practices in the jail and other matters as

specified by the Board.


                                                   9
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 10 of 41




       58.     From about 1998 to 2022 the public services of the George W. Hill Correctional

Facility in Delaware County Pennsylvania were under private administration by Community

Education Centers, Inc./The Geo Group (hereafter referred to as "Geo" or "Geo Group").

       59.     Prior to 1998 when Geo assumed control of the public administrative functions of

the jail, the jail was administered directly by Delaware County, Pennsylvania.

       60.     The George W. Hill Correctional Facility under Geo's management employed

around three-hundred-eight (308) Corrections Officers.

       61.     The Collective Bargaining Unit of the Corrections Officers of the George W. Hill

Correctional Facility is the Delaware County Prison Employees Independent Union (hereafter

referred to as "Union" or "DCPEIU").

       62.     Prior to Geo's management and administration of the George W. Hill Correctional

Facility on behalf of Delaware County Pennsylvania, a Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA)

existed between DCPEIU and Delaware County.

       63.     For the duration of Geo's operation of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility on

behalf of Delaware County Pennsylvania, a Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) existed

between Geo and DCPEIU, with the most recent incarnation of that agreement covering the years

2017 through 2020.

       64.     The CBA outlines the terms and conditions of employment for the Correctional

Officers of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       65.     In addition to outlining the terms and conditions of employment, including

recognition of DCPEIU as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for all full-time and

regular part-time Correctional Officers employed by Geo at the George W. Hill Correctional




                                               10
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 11 of 41




Facility, outlining the working hours, overtime provisions, paid time off, grievance procedures,

among others, the CBA contained a provision which provides as follows:


ARTICLE 28. TERM

       28.1 Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement becomes effective
       January 1, 2027 and shall continue in force and effect until midnight December 31,
       2019 and from year to year thereafter unless either party receives written notice
       from the other party, not less than sixty (60) days, nor more than ninety (90) days,
       immediately prior to the expiration date, of its intention to amend, modify or
       terminate this Agreement, provided that if the Company shall cease to operate at
       this site, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and the rights and obligations
       of both the Union and the Company hereunder shall automatically cease, except
       with reference to those Officers covered herein shall remain in the employment of
       the Company for the purpose of performing work arising from the termination
       provisions of the Company's agreement with the Client, and as to such Officers,
       this Agreement shall continue in effect until termination of employment of such
       Officers.


       66.     On about April 6, 2022, Delaware County Pennsylvania re-assumed direct control

of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       67.     By re-assuming direct control of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility,

Delaware County assumed the management functions of the jail.

       68.     On about January 31, 2022, the County Commissioners appointed Defendant

Williams to serve as Warden of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.



TERMINATION OF EMPLOYEES WITHOUT DUE PROCESS:

       69.     Upon re-assuming direct control of the Jail and assuming operational

responsibilities, Defendants, led by DEFENDANT Williams, systematically targeted roughly

sixty-eight (68) individuals who they terminated absent any notice, hearing, charge, or due process

whatsoever.



                                                11
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 12 of 41




       70.     The individuals terminated by Defendants were all employees in good standing,

meaning no employee was facing a disciplinary sanction that would have led to or supported

termination.

       71.     Where an employee of a private company subcontracted by a public entity to

perform a public service have a "just cause" termination clause in their collective bargaining

agreement (CBA), those employees have a due process property interest in their jobs and may not

be terminated absent notice and opportunity to be heard. Atterbury v. United States Marshals Serv.,

941 F.3d 56 (2d Cir. 2019).

       72.     The CBA between Geo and DCPEIU provided in relevant part as follows:


ARTICLE 13. JUST CAUSE
     ...
     13.02 No employee shall be discharged, disciplined, or demoted without just cause.
     The Company shall provide the Union a copy of any disciplinary action taken
     against an officer.


       73.     The CBA between Geo and DCPEIU also provides that the principles of

Progressive Discipline will be adhered to.

       74.     In matters of public employment in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania there exists

a duty, which includes a public sector union performing a public service on behalf of a public

entity which subcontracts those public duties to a private company, to maintain the status quo when

a CBA expires and no successor agreement is in place. Luzerne Intermediate Unit No. 18 v.

Luzerne Intermediate Unit Education Association, 89 A.3d 319 (Pa. Cmwlth. 2014), citing

Fairview School District v. Unemployment Compensation Board of Review, 499 Pa. 539, 454 A.2d

517, 521 (Pa. 1982) ("The underlying rationale for the status quo requirement is that during the

interim period between contracts, the employer may continue operations and the employee may



                                                12
             Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 13 of 41




continue working, while the parties are free to negotiate on an equal basis in good faith.

Maintenance of the status quo is merely another way of stating that the parties must continue the

existing relationship in effect at the expiration of the old contract.") See also Philadelphia Fed'n

of Tchrs. v. Sch. Dist. of Philadelphia, 109 A.3d 298 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 2015), aff'd on other

grounds sub nom. Philadelphia Fed'n of Tchrs., AFT, Loc. 3, AFL-CIO v. Sch. Dist. of

Philadelphia, 636 Pa. 484, 144 A.3d 1281 (2016).

            75.   Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Members possess and possessed a legitimate claim of

entitlement to continued employment with Delaware County and the George W. Hill Correctional

Facility and were entitled to due process which they did not receive. Bd. of Regents of State

Colleges v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564 (1972).

            76.   When DEFENDANT Williams began her tenure as Warden, she unilaterally

repudiated the standing contract between DCPEIU and Geo despite the status quo requiring the

terms and conditions of employment to continue despite the termination of the previous CBA.

            77.   Kwaning was one such individual who was an employee in good standing and was

not facing any disciplinary sanctions.

            78.   Kwaning was a fourteen (14) year veteran Correctional Officer with the George W.

Hill Correctional Facility.

            79.   In his fourteen (14) year career, Kwaning did not have any violations of rules,

regulations, policies, or procedures until the very end of Geo’s administration of the jail, when he

was disciplined for inadvertently bringing headache medicine for a headache he was having into

the jail.

            80.   For that first infraction in his career he received a ten (10) days suspension but

served the entirety thereof and was returned to full active duty in good standing.



                                                  13
            Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 14 of 41




       81.      Gwaku was another such individual who, although receiving a disciplinary sanction

at the end of Geo’s tenure of operation, was an employee in good standing and was not facing any

disciplinary sanctions yet was terminated by Defendants without any due process or hearing of

any sort.

       82.      Similarly, Demonfonte, Branham, Lofton, Maanneh, Diallo, Henry, Hymann,

Amouzou, Veney, Savage, Sevor, Robinson, and Wiedman all had previous discipline ranging in

duration, but common to all Plaintiffs is the fact that they were all in good standing while working

for GEO and were all in good standing when GEO’s operation of the jail was ended by Defendants.

       83.      Termination of employees in good standing without constitutionally-required due

process runs contrary to law, policy, and to the principles of progressive discipline.




FREE SPEECH, ASSOCIATION, PETITION – ON BEHALF OF PRESIDENT
KWANING AND VICE PRESIDENT GWAKU:

       84.      Following the termination without due process of roughly sixty-eight (68) George

W. Hill Correctional Facility Employees, twenty-nine (29) of whom were active and participatory

Union Members, DCPEIU President Plaintiff Kwaning and Vice President Plaintiff Gwaku were

summarily prohibited, along with other terminated individuals removed without due process, from

setting foot on the grounds of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       85.      Union representatives have free speech, association, and the right to petition the

government. Palardy v. Twp. of Millburn, 906 F.3d 76 (3d Cir. 2018), See also Baloga v. Pittston

Area Sch. Dist., 927 F.3d 742 (3d Cir. 2019).




                                                 14
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 15 of 41




       86.       This necessarily requires access to the employees of the George W. Hill

Correctional Facility, access to the grounds of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility, and in the

case of any disciplinary proceedings that do or did occur, the ability to represent Members in those

proceedings even if those proceedings occurred on George W. Hill Correctional Facility and even

if Kawnning and Gwaku had been terminated by Defendants.

       87.       Yet Defendants failed to allow Plaintiffs Kwaning and Gwaku to represent their

members in any way, shape, or form on George W. Hill Correctional Facility property from about

April, 2022 until about August, 2023.

       88.       Multiple times on a repeated, systematic, and sustained basis, on specific dates and

times spanning from about April, 2022 until about August, 2023, Defendants prohibited Plaintiffs

Kwaning and Gwaku from representing Union Members in disciplinary proceedings and from

speaking on behalf of Members of DCPEIU.

       89.       Plaintiffs Kwaning and Gwaku repeatedly attempted to exercise their free speech,

association, and petition rights and were systematically, deliberately, and continuously prevented

from doing so.

       90.       This not only infringed on Plaintiffs Kwaning and Gwaku's rights but also

materially injured the Members of DCPEIU since they were unable to avail themselves of their

selected choice of Union representative.

       91.       DEFENDANTS’ actions in prohibiting Plaintiffs Kwaning and Gwaku to represent

DCPEIU Members further infringed on DCPEIU Member’s Weingarten and Loudermill rights.

       92.       DEFENDANT Williams personally expressed her instituted policy that Plaintiffs

Kwaning and Gwaku were not to be permitted on Correctional Facility premesis to represent

Members of DCPEIU.



                                                 15
            Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 16 of 41




        93.     DEFENDANT Williams' instituted policies were further carried out by

DEFENDANT Marquette.

        94.     For the time period of about April, 2022 until about August, 2023, Kwaning and

Gwaku, despite their positions as President and Vice President of DCPEIU, were prohibited from

representing Union Members in disciplinary proceedings or from accessing any of the Union-

related areas such as bulletin boards of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.


FREE SPEECH – REFUSING TO COLLECT AND REMIT UNION DUES:

               1. DCPEIU is the lawful and recognized majority bargaining organization for

                  Delaware County Pennsylvania Corrections Officers.

        2.      Immediately upon assuming control of the jail in about April, 2022, Defendants by-

and-through the actions of DEFENDANT Williams unilaterally and impermissibly ceased

collecting dues from DCPEIU Members despite these individuals being active dues-paying

Members of the Delaware County Prison Employees Independent Union.

        3.      Union Leadership repeatedly and consistently informed Defendants that this was a

violation of Union Members' Rights yet Defendants persisted in violating those rights by refusing

to deduct dues from DCPEIU Members and remitting them to the Union.

        4.      Union Members signed around one-hundred-fifty (150) dues election cards

directing Defendants to deduct dues on behalf of DCPEIU. (Exhibit A).

        5.      These tactics were deliberately designed to weaken and attrit the Union to harm

DCPEIU, its Members, and all Corrections Officers working at the George W. Hill Correctional

Facility.




                                                16
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 17 of 41




       6.      These tactics irreparably harmed DCPEIU, its Members, and all Corrections

Officers working at the George W. Hill Correctional Facility by making it difficult and in some

cases impossible for the Union to counteract Defendants' unlawful actions and violations.

       7.      In the context of Union membership, dues from Members constitutes an exercise

of those Members' free speech rights. Janus v. Am. Fed'n of State, Cnty., & Mun. Emps., Council

31, 138 S. Ct. 2448, 2492, 201 L. Ed. 2d 924 (2018).

       8.      In response to Defendants' continued refusal to deduct dues from Members who

had elected to provide same to the Union, the Union circulated Election Cards to Membership

(Attached as Exhibit B) which allowed DCPEIU Members to direct Defendants to honor their

desire to have Defendants deduct dues and remit same to the Union.

       9.      Still, even after additional Election Cards were submitted to Defendants expressing

Members' desire to have their free speech heard by paying dues to DCPEIU, Defendants persisted

in violating those directives and free speech rights.

DEFENDANTS’ KNOWLEDGE, PARTICIPATION, AND INDIFFERENCE TO
DEFENDANT WILLIAMS’ AND HER SUBORDINATES’ ACTIONS:


       10.     DEFENDANT Madden had actual knowledge of DEFENDANT Williams's

violation of Plaintiffs' rights and DEFENDANT Madden acquiesced in those violations directly or

by his inaction to prevent further violations of law and of the Constitution of the United States.

       11.     DEFENDANT Madden acted with deliberate indifference to the consequences of

DEFENDANT Williams's actions.

       12.     DEFENDANT Madden, established and maintained a policy , practice or custom

which directly caused the violation.




                                                 17
        Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 18 of 41




       13.    DEFENDANT Madden has supervisory authority over DEFENDANT Williams

and in his position as Chair of the Jail Oversight Board has influence and authority over

DEFENDANT Jail Oversight Board and DEFENDANT George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       14.    DEFENDANT Madden was aware of DEFENDANT Williams's conduct and

actions in her capacity as Warden of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       15.    DEFENDANT Williams made monthly reports to the Jail Oversight Board

updating the Board Members and Council as a whole through the Jail Oversight Board of the

actions she took as Warden of George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       16.    DEFENDANT Madden acquiesced to DEFENDANT Williams's actions at the jail.

       17.    DEFENDANT Madden acquiesced to DEFENDANT Williams's actions in

terminating the employment of Plaintiffs Kwaning, Gwaku, Demonfonte, Branham, Lofton,

Maanneh, Diallo, Henry, Hymann, Amouzou, Veney, Savage, Sevor, Robinson, and Wiedman.

       18.    DEFENDANT Madden acquiesced to DEFENDANT Williams's actions in failing

and refusing to collect dues from DCPEIU Members despite the Members providing

DEFENDANTS with signed cards electing to have dues taken from their paychecks and remitted

to DCPEIU.

       19.    DEFENDANT Madden failed to institute any policy, training, or regulation which

would have prevented DEFENDANT Williams from violating Plaintiffs' rights.

       20.    DEFENDANT Madden, Defendant Jail Oversight Board, Defendant George W.

Hill Correctional Facility, and Defendant Delaware County's failure to institute a policy which

enforced adherence to contractual provisions, norms, and laws of both the Commonwealth of

Pennsylvania and of the United States of America involving the protection of public employees,




                                               18
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 19 of 41




including but not limited to adherence to the "status quo" doctrine, created an unreasonable risk

that Plaintiff's constitutional due process protections would be violated.

        21.     DEFENDANT Madden, Defendant Jail Oversight Board, Defendant George W.

Hill Correctional Facility, and Defendant Delaware County's failure to institute a policy which

enforced adherence to principles and laws involving Union rights, including Freedom of Speech,

Freedom of Association, Freedom to Petition the Government, allowing Union Members to pay

dues to a Union, and rights of Union representatives to represent and defend Union Members in

administrative proceedings and to intercede on their behalf created an unreasonable risk that

Plaintiff's constitutional rights under the First Amendment would be violated.

        22.     DEFENDANT Madden, Defendant Jail Oversight Board, Defendant George W.

Hill Correctional Facility, and DEFENDANT Delaware County never indicated at any meeting or

in any report that they had concerns regarding the constitutionality of jail policies as it pertained

to DCPEIU Members and George W. Hill Correctional Facility employees and as such were

deliberately indifferent to the risk of violation of Plaintiffs' constitutional rights that a failure to

adopt, implement, and adhere to such a policy would cause.

        23.     Plaintiff's constitutional rights under the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments

to the United States Constitution were violated as a direct and proximate result of DEFENDANT

Madden's failure to implement necessary and proper policies.

        24.     DEFENDANT Madden was well-apprised of DEFENDANT Williams's actions at

all times.

        25.     DEFENDANT Williams made regular monthly reports to the Jail Oversight Board

and had regular discussions with DEFENDANT Madden throughout her time leading up to her

appointment as well as while she served as Warden during all times relevant to this matter.



                                                  19
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 20 of 41




       26.     In these conversations, DEFENDANT Williams relayed her plans and actions

regarding staffing, interactions with the Union, disciplinary matters, and discussed same with

DEFENDANT Madden.

       27.     DEFENDANT Madden in turn discussed these plans, actions, and administrative

functions, which included terminating Plaintiffs Kwaning, Gwaku, Demonfonte, Branham,

Lofton, Maanneh, Diallo, Henry, Hymann, Amouzou, Veney, Savage, Sevor, Robinson, and

Wiedman and which included refusing and failing to collect dues as directed by DCPEIU

Members.

       28.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Madden was aware of DEFENDANT

Williams's actions and approved thereof.

       29.     At all times relevant, DEFENDANT Madden directly participated in

DEFENDANT Williams' actions and was in close contact with DEFENDANT Williams regarding

the actions she was taking against Union Members and George W. Hill Correctional Facility

employees.

       30.     DEFENDANT Delaware County maintained a custom of deficient hiring and

staffing policies and practices in that no policies existed to protect the due process rights of public

employees performing the public service of Corrections which had been subcontracted to Geo

when those services were re-assumed by Delaware County directly.

       31.     DEFENDANT Delaware County maintained a lack of an adequate training

program for upper-level management regarding constitutional protections for public employees.

       32.     DEFENDANT Delaware County maintained a lack of an adequate training policy

to address labor-management issues, contractual requirements, and constitutional protections.




                                                  20
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 21 of 41




       33.     DEFENDANT Delaware County maintained a lack of established protocols to

ensure lawful labor-management relations.

       34.     DEFENDANT Delaware County was aware that no policies existed to address

staffing in the transition from GEO’s managerial control to Delaware County’s managerial control.

       35.     DEFENDANT Delaware County was aware that no policies existed to train upper-

level management staff, such as DEFENDANT Williams, in labor-management relations, contract

law principles (including the status quo doctrine), and constitutional rights and liberties enjoyed

by public employees in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and United States of America.

       36.     DEFENDANT Delaware County did not enact policies to address due process

rights of public employees.

       37.     DEFENDANT Delaware County did not enact policies to ensure that

administrators of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility were properly versed in the principles

of progressive discipline.

       38.     DEFENDANT Delaware County did not modify any existing county policies to

include protections against violations of public employees', specifically Corrections Officers at the

George W. Hill Correctional Facility, constitutional rights to due process, freedom of speech,

freedom of association, and freedom to petition the government under the First, Fifth, and

Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.

       39.     The failure of Delaware County to enact any policies to include protections against

violations of public employees', specifically Corrections Officers at the George W. Hill

Correctional Facility, constitutional rights to due process, freedom of speech, freedom of

association, and freedom to petition the government under the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth




                                                 21
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 22 of 41




Amendments to the United States Constitution directly and proximately resulted in the violations

of Plaintiffs' rights implemented in her official capacity by DEFENDANT Williams.

       40.     Defendant Delaware County, which is organized and incorporated under the laws

of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and is subject thereto, was aware that policies and

procedures for the operation and implementation of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility were

necessary and required as a matter of law.

       41.     DEFENDANT Delaware County was deliberately indifferent to the lack of these

policies, as evidenced by the utter lack of discussion, inquiry, investigation, or oversight directed

at DEFENDANT Williams and the lack of discussion in DEFENDANT Williams's reports to the

County and to the Jail Oversight Board.

       42.     The lack of adequate hiring and staffing policies and practices was known by

DEFENDANT Delaware County but was not corrected despite the probability of harm to the

constitutional rights of Corrections Officers at the George W. Hill Correctional Facility likely

being infringed by the lack thereof.

       43.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board maintained a custom of deficient hiring and staffing

policies and practices in that no policies existed to protect the due process rights of public

employees performing the public service of Corrections which had been subcontracted to Geo

when those services were re-assumed by Delaware County.

       44.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board maintained a lack of an adequate training program

for upper-level management regarding constitutional protections for public employees.

       45.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board maintained a lack of an adequate training policy to

address labor-management issues, contractual requirements, and constitutional protections.




                                                 22
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 23 of 41




       46.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board maintained a lack of established protocols to ensure

lawful labor-management relations.

       47.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board was aware that no policies existed to address

staffing in the transition from GEO’s managerial control to Delaware County’s managerial control.

       48.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board was aware that no policies existed to train upper-

level management staff, such as DEFENDANT Williams, in labor-management relations, contract

law principles (including the status quo doctrine), and constitutional rights and liberties enjoyed

by public employees in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and United States of America.

       49.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board did not enact policies to address due process rights

of public employees.

       50.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board did not enact policies to ensure that administrators

of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility were properly versed in the principles of progressive

discipline.

       51.     Defendant Jail Oversight Board did not modify any existing county policies to

include protections against violations of public employees', specifically Corrections Officers at the

George W. Hill Correctional Facility, constitutional rights to due process, freedom of speech,

freedom of association, and freedom to petition the government under the First, Fifth, and

Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.

       52.     The failure of the Jail Oversight Board to enact any policies to include protections

against violations of public employees', specifically Corrections Officers at the George W. Hill

Correctional Facility, constitutional rights to due process, freedom of speech, freedom of

association, and freedom to petition the government under the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth




                                                 23
          Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 24 of 41




Amendments to the United States Constitution directly and proximately resulted in the violations

of Plaintiffs' rights implemented in her official capacity by DEFENDANT Williams.

         53.   Defendant Jail Oversight Board, which is organized and incorporated under the

laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and is subject thereto, was aware that policies and

procedures for the operation and implementation of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility were

necessary and required as a matter of law.

         54.   Defendant Jail Oversight Board was deliberately indifferent to the lack of these

policies, as evidenced by the utter lack of discussion, inquiry, investigation, or oversight directed

at DEFENDANT Williams and the lack of discussion in DEFENDANT Williams's reports to the

County and to the Jail Oversight Board.

         55.   The lack of adequate hiring and staffing policies and practices was known by

Defendant Jail Oversight Board but was not corrected despite the probability of harm to the

constitutional rights of Corrections Officers at the George W. Hill Correctional Facility likely

being infringed by the lack thereof.

         56.   Absent policies to ensure the constitutional rights, including due process under the

Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution, and the associational, free

speech, and rights to petition the government under the First Amendment to the United States

Constitution, these harms are likely to recur and continue (as evidenced by the most recent batch

of Corrections Officers at the George W. Hill Correctional Facility who were terminated absent a

Loudermill hearing or any departmental due process whatsoever as recently as the last quarter of

2023).




                                                 24
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 25 of 41




       57.     DEFENDANT Williams was empowered by DEFENDANT Delaware County and

Defendant Jail Oversight Board to administer the policies, goals, and authority of DEFENDANT

Delaware County and Defendant Jail Oversight Board.

       58.     DEFENDANT Williams, acting in her official capacity, made the deliberate

choices to follow a course of action as it related to terminating without due process Correctional

Officers who were in good standing prior to Delaware County re-assuming administration of the

operations of the George W. Hill Correctional Facility.

       59.     DEFENDANT Williams, acting in her official capacity, made the deliberate

choices to follow a course of action as it related to refusing to honor the directive of DCPEIU

Members regarding the taking of dues and remitting same to DCPEIU.

       60.     DEFENDANT Williams, acting in her official capacity, made the deliberate

choices to follow a course of action as it related to refusing entry to represent Members of DCPEIU

to Plaintiffs Kwaning and Gwaku.

       61.     DEFENDANT Marquette was complicit in enacting Defendant Williams’ unlawful

policies and procedures.

       62.     DEFENDANT Williams instructed her subordinates and conspired with them to

prepare a list of individuals which amounted to a “hit list” which included Plaintiffs, and in

particular Plaintiffs Gwaku and Kwaning, singling those individuals out with regard to Defendants

terminating the without due process.



                                    CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
42 U.S.C. § 1983 provides:

       Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or
       usage, of any State or Territory or the District of Columbia, subjects, or causes to
       be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person within the jurisdiction


                                                25
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 26 of 41




       thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the
       Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in
       equity, or other proper proceeding for redress, except that in any action brought
       against a judicial officer for an act or omission taken in such officer's judicial
       capacity, injunctive relief shall not be granted unless a declaratory decree was
       violated or declaratory relief was unavailable. For the purposes of this section, any
       Act of Congress applicable exclusively to the District of Columbia shall be
       considered to be a statute of the District of Columbia.

                                             Count I
                                        42 U.S.C. §1983
                Violation of Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments - Due Process
                                   Plaintiff v. All Defendants


       63.     Plaintiffs repeat, incorporate by reference, and realleges every allegation and every

paragraph in this Complaint as if fully set forth herein at length.

       64.     The Due Process Clause "protects against deprivation of federal- or state-created

protected interests without constitutionally adequate process, such as notice and the opportunity to

be heard (procedural due process)." Jones v. Twp. of Middletown, No. 11-cv-564, 2011 U.S. Dist.

LEXIS 81578, 2011 WL 3157143, at *3 (E.D. Pa. July 26, 2011) (citing Daniels v. Williams, 474

U.S. 327, 339, 106 S. Ct. 662, 88 L. Ed. 2d 662 (1986) (Stevens, J., concurring)). "The Due Process

Clause [also] protects an individual from state deprivation of constitutionally created rights for

reasons so arbitrary, or by conduct so egregious, that it 'shocks the conscience,' regardless of the

adequacy of the procedures used (substantive due process)," Jones, 2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 81578,

2011 WL 3157143, at *3 (citing Kaucher v. Cnty. of Bucks, 455 F.3d 418, 425 (3d Cir. 2006)).

       65.     The Court must determine whether the plaintiff asserts procedural or substantive

due process claims because "not all property interests worthy of procedural due process protection

are protected by the concept of substantive due process." Reich v. Beharry, 883 F.2d 239, 244 (3d

Cir. 1989).




                                                 26
           Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 27 of 41




          66.   "The Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution forbids a state from depriving

persons of life, liberty, or property without due process of law." Alvin v. Suzuki, 227 F.3d 107, 116

(3d Cir. 2000). "When a plaintiff sues under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 for a state actor's failure to provide

procedural due process, [courts] employ the familiar two-stage analysis, inquiring (1) whether the

asserted individual interests are encompassed within the [F]ourteenth [A]mendment's protection

of life, liberty, or property; and (2) whether the procedures available provided the plaintiff with

due process of law." Id. (quoting Robb v. City of Phila., 733 F.2d 286, 292 (3d Cir. 1984)) (internal

quotation marks and citation omitted). "[T]o have a property interest in a benefit that is protected

by procedural due process, 'a person clearly must . . . have a legitimate claim of entitlement to it.'"

Robb, 733 F.2d at 292 (quoting Bd. of Regents v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 577, 92 S. Ct. 2701, 33 L.

Ed. 2d 548 (1972)). Property interests "are created and their dimensions are defined by existing

rules or understandings that stern from an independent source such as state law." Roth, 408 U.S.

at 577.

          67.   Plaintiffs Kwaning, Gwaku, Demonfonte, Branham, Lofton, Maanneh, Diallo,

Henry, Hymann, Amouzou, Veney, Savage, Sevor, Robinson, and Wiedman had a property

interest their jobs which were privately-subcontracted public jobs since there was a “just cause

clause” in their contract with the private subcontractor. Atterbury v. United States Marshals Serv.,

941 F.3d 56 (2d Cir. 2019).

          68.   Plaintiffs Kwaning, Gwaku, Demonfonte, Branham, Lofton, Maanneh, Diallo,

Henry, Hymann, Amouzou, Veney, Savage, Sevor, Robinson, and Wiedman's procedural due

process rights were infringed by Defendants because Plaintiffs possessed a protected property

interest in continued public employment despite GEO group being a private subcontractor of




                                                  27
            Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 28 of 41




Delaware County's public law enforcement and corrections duties at George W. Hill Correctional

Facility.

        69.     By Defendants' failure to afford Plaintiffs Kwaning, Gwaku, Demonfonte,

Branham, Lofton, Maanneh, Diallo, Henry, Hymann, Amouzou, Veney, Savage, Sevor, Robinson,

and Wiedman's procedural due process rights by summarily terminating them without notice,

hearing, and/or opportunity to be heard, Defendants have violated Plaintffs' due process rights

under the 5th and 14th Amendments to the United States Constitution.

        70.     Kwaning, Gwaku, Demonfonte, Branham, Lofton, Maanneh, Diallo, Henry,

Hymann, Amouzou, Veney, Savage, Sevor, Robinson, and Wiedman's substantive due process

rights were infringed by Defendants because Plaintiff’s Members possessed a protected property

interest in their jobs and Defendants' conduct was "so egregious, so outrageous, that it may fairly

be said to shock the contemporary conscience." Kaucher v. Cty. of Bucks, 455 F.3d 418 at 425 (3d

Cir. 2006).

        71.     Defendants utterly disregarded the Constitution of the United States, federal, state,

and common law regarding contractual interpretation in public employment in unilaterally and

summarily repudiating the contractual provisions and ignoring the property interest possessed by

Plaintiff’s Members when Defendants unilaterally and summarily, without notice and opportunity

to be heard, terminated Plaintiff’s Members, who were employees in good standing of GEO.

        72.     Plaintiffs and Plaintiff’s Members incurred financial, reputational, and

psychological harm as a direct result of Defendants' unconstitutional and unlawful actions.

        73.     As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ willful unlawful termination of

Plaintiff's Members employment Plaintiffs Members have suffered and continue to suffer

emotional and financial harm.



                                                 28
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 29 of 41




       74.     While acting under the color of the law, Defendants violated Plaintiffs and

Plaintiff’s Members constitutional rights by unilaterally and without due process terminating

Plaintiffs, which resulted in injury to Plaintiffs and their Members.

       75.     Defendants' actions violated the constitutional rights guaranteed to Plaintiffs and

their Members under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.

       76.     196.    Defendants’ actions were not taken in good-faith and were in violation of

clearly established state and federal law and the Constitution of the United States.

       77.     Defendants' actions were egregious, unnecessary, unreasonable, unlawful, and

unjustified.

       78.     As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ unreasonable and unlawful

actions, Plaintiffs and their Members have suffered and continue to suffer substantial past and

future damages, both compensatory and general, including, but not limited to, medical bills, loss

of income, severe emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment, humiliation, disfigurement,

and physical pain and suffering.

       79.     Because Defendants' and possibly other employees, agents, and/or representatives

of Defendants, were motivated by evil motive or intent and/or involved a reckless or callous

indifference to the federally protected rights of the Plaintiffs and their Members an award of

punitive damages is appropriate to the fullest extent permitted by law.

                                             Count II
                                         42 U.S.C. §1983
                Violation of First Amendment - Free Speech - Right to Petition
                                    Plaintiff v. All Defendants


       80.     Plaintiffs repeat, incorporate by reference, and realleges every allegation and every

paragraph in this Complaint as if fully set forth herein at length.



                                                 29
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 30 of 41




       81.     "At its core, the right of petition protects a personal right to bring complaints about

public policy directly to officers of the government." Ferrone v. Onorato, 298 F. App'x 190, 193

(3d Cir. 2008)(quoting Ronald J. Krotoszynski & Clint A. Carpenter, The Return of Seditious

Libel, 55 UCLA L. Rev. 1239, 1246 (2008)).

       82.     To establish a claim under the petition clause, a Plaintiff must show that the

Defendants acted "with reckless or intentional indifference to his constitutional rights"; mere

negligence will not suffice. Woods v. Lemonds, 804 F. Supp. 1106, 1109 (E.D. Mo. 1992), aff'd,

991 F.2d 802 (8th Cir. 1993) (table); Ferrone v. Onorato, 298 F. App'x 190, 193 (3d Cir. 2008).

       83.     Defendants, and in particular Defendant Williams, were aware, or should have been

aware, that Defendant Williams' actions in unilaterally repudiating the contract and its protections

ran directly contrary to the Constitution of the United States, federal, state, and common law.

       84.     Defendants, and in particular Defendant Williams, were aware, or should have been

aware, that Defendant Williams' actions in unilaterally terminating Plaintiff’s Members absent due

process of law ran directly contrary to the Constitution of the United States, federal, state, and

common law.

       85.     By unilaterally terminating Plaintiff’s Members, Defendants deprived Plaintiffs

and their Members of their individual personal rights to bring complaints about public policy

directly to officers of the government.

       86.     Plaintiffs and their Members incurred financial, reputational, and psychological

harm as a direct result of Defendants' unconstitutional and unlawful actions.

       87.     While acting under the color of the law, Defendants violated Plaintiffs’ and their

Members’ constitutional rights by unilaterally ignoring Plaintiffs' Rights to Petition by terminating

Plaintiff’s Members which resulted in injury to Plaintiffs and their Members.



                                                 30
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 31 of 41




       88.     Defendants' actions violated the constitutional rights guaranteed to Plaintiffs and

their Members under the First Amendment.

       89.     196.    Defendants’ actions were not taken in good-faith and were in violation of

clearly established state and federal law and the Constitution of the United States.

       90.     Defendants' actions were egregious, unnecessary, unreasonable, unlawful, and

unjustified.

       91.     As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ unreasonable and unlawful

actions, Plaintiffs and their Members have suffered and continue to suffer substantial past and

future damages, both compensatory and general, including, but not limited to, medical bills, loss

of income, severe emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment, humiliation, disfigurement,

and physical pain and suffering.

       92.     Because Defendants' and possibly other employees, agents, and/or representatives

of Defendants, were motivated by evil motive or intent and/or involved a reckless or callous

indifference to the federally protected rights of the Plaintiffs and their Members an award of

punitive damages is appropriate to the fullest extent permitted by law.

                                           Count III
                                        42 U.S.C. §1983
                       Violation of First Amendment - Right to Petition
                                  Plaintiffs v. All Defendants


       155.    Plaintiffs repeat, incorporate by reference, and realleges every allegation and every

paragraph in this Complaint as if fully set forth herein at length.

       156.    "At its core, the right of petition protects a personal right to bring complaints about

public policy directly to officers of the government." Ferrone v. Onorato, 298 F. App'x 190, 193




                                                 31
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 32 of 41




(3d Cir. 2008)(quoting Ronald J. Krotoszynski & Clint A. Carpenter, The Return of Seditious

Libel, 55 UCLA L. Rev. 1239, 1246 (2008)).

       157.    To establish a claim under the petition clause, a Plaintiff must show that the

Defendants acted "with reckless or intentional indifference to his constitutional rights"; mere

negligence will not suffice. Woods v. Lemonds, 804 F. Supp. 1106, 1109 (E.D. Mo. 1992), aff'd,

991 F.2d 802 (8th Cir. 1993) (table); Ferrone v. Onorato, 298 F. App'x 190, 193 (3d Cir. 2008).

       158.    Union representatives have both freedom of association and freedom to petition

rights. See Palardy v. Twp. of Millburn, 906 F.3d 76 (3d Cir. 2018).

       159.    Defendants, and in particular Defendant Williams, were aware, or should have been

aware, that Defendant Williams' actions in unilaterally repudiating the contract and its protections

ran directly contrary to the Constitution of the United States, federal, state, and common law.

       160.    Defendants, and in particular Defendant Williams, were aware, or should have been

aware, that Defendant Williams' actions in unilaterally preventing Kwaning and Gwaku from

representing Union members in disciplinary hearings, being present on jail grounds, and engaging

in other activities associated with Kwaning and Gwaku's Union positions and responsibilities ran

directly contrary to the Constitution of the United States, federal, state, and common law.

       161.    Plaintiffs and their Members incurred financial, reputational, and psychological

harm as a direct result of Defendants' unconstitutional and unlawful actions.

       162.    While acting under the color of the law, Defendants violated Kwaning and Gwaku's

constitutional rights by unilaterally ignoring Plaintiff’s and their Members Rights to Petition by

refusing to allow Kwaning and Gwaku to conduct Union business and rep, which resulted in injury

to Plaintiffs and their Members.




                                                32
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 33 of 41




       163.    Defendants' actions violated the constitutional rights guaranteed to Kwaning and

Gwaku under the First Amendment.

       164.    196.    Defendants’ actions were not taken in good-faith and were in violation of

clearly established state and federal law and the Constitution of the United States.

       165.    Defendants' actions were egregious, unnecessary, unreasonable, unlawful, and

unjustified.

       166.    As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ unreasonable and unlawful

actions, Plaintiffs and their Members have suffered and continue to suffer substantial past and

future damages, both compensatory and general, including, but not limited to, medical bills, loss

of income, severe emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment, humiliation, disfigurement,

and physical pain and suffering.

       167.    Because Defendants' and possibly other employees, agents, and/or representatives

of Defendants, were motivated by evil motive or intent and/or involved a reckless or callous

indifference to the federally protected rights of the Plaintiffs and their Members an award of

punitive damages is appropriate to the fullest extent permitted by law.

                                           Count IV
                                       42 U.S.C. §1983
                   Violation of First Amendment - Freedom of Association
                                  Plaintiffs v. All Defendants


       168.    Plaintiffs repeat, incorporate by reference, and realleges every allegation and every

paragraph in this Complaint as if fully set forth herein at length.

       169.    A 42 U.S.C.S. § 1983 retaliation claim asserting a violation of the right to freedom

of association requires a showing that the Plaintiffs and their Members were engaged in




                                                 33
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 34 of 41




constitutionally protected conduct, which conduct was a substantial' or motivating factor in the

government employer's adverse employment decision.

       170.    Union representatives have both freedom of association and freedom to petition

rights. Palardy v. Twp. of Millburn, 906 F.3d 76 (3d Cir. 2018).

       171.    Defendants, and in particular Defendant Williams, were aware, or should have been

aware, that Defendant Williams' actions in unilaterally repudiating the contract and its protections

ran directly contrary to the Constitution of the United States, federal, state, and common law.

       172.    Defendants, and in particular Defendant Williams, were aware, or should have been

aware, that Defendant Williams' actions in unilaterally preventing Kwaning and Gwaku from

representing Union members in disciplinary hearings, being present on jail grounds, and engaging

in other activities associated with Kwaning and Gwaku's Union positions and responsibilities ran

directly contrary to the Constitution of the United States, federal, state, and common law.

       173.    Plaintiffs incurred financial, reputational, and psychological harm as a direct result

of Defendants' unconstitutional and unlawful actions.

       174.    While acting under the color of the law, Defendants violated Kwaning and Gwaku's

constitutional rights by unilaterally ignoring Plaintiffs and their Members’ Rights to Petition by

refusing to allow Kwaning and Gwaku to conduct Union business and rep, which resulted in injury

to Plaintiffs and their Members.

       175.    Defendants' actions violated the constitutional rights guaranteed to Kwaning and

Gwaku under the First Amendment.

       176.    Defendants’ actions were not taken in good-faith and were in violation of clearly

established state and federal law and the Constitution of the United States.




                                                34
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 35 of 41




       177.    Defendants' actions were egregious, unnecessary, unreasonable, unlawful, and

unjustified.

       178.    As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ unreasonable and unlawful

actions, Plaintiffs and their Members have suffered and continue to suffer substantial past and

future damages, both compensatory and general, including, but not limited to, medical bills, loss

of income, severe emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment, humiliation, disfigurement,

and physical pain and suffering.

       179.    Because Defendants' and possibly other employees, agents, and/or representatives

of Defendants, were motivated by evil motive or intent and/or involved a reckless or callous

indifference to the federally protected rights of the Plaintiffs and their Members an award of

punitive damages is appropriate to the fullest extent permitted by law.


                                             Count V
                         Section 1983 -- Retaliation – First Amendment
                                   Plaintiffs v. All Defendants


       180.    Plaintiffs repeat, incorporate by reference, and realleges every allegation and every

paragraph in this Complaint as if fully set forth herein at length.

       181.    Defendants terminated Kwaning and Gwaku.

       182.    Defendants terminated Kwaning and Gwaku because of their representation of

DCPEIU Members and because of Kwaning and Gwaku's membership in the Union.

       183.    Kwaning and Gwaku's protected activity was a motivating factor in Defendants'

decision to discharge Kwaning and Gwaku.

       184.    Plaintiffs and their Members incurred financial, reputational, and psychological

harm as a direct result of Defendants' unconstitutional and unlawful actions.



                                                 35
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 36 of 41




       185.    While acting under the color of the law, Defendants violated Kwaning and Gwaku's

constitutional rights by retaliating against Plaintiffs and their Members for protected activity under

the First Amendment which resulted in injury to Plaintiffs and their Members.

       186.    Defendants' retaliatory actions violated the constitutional rights guaranteed to

Kwaning and Gwaku under the First Amendment.

       187.    196.    Defendants’ actions were not taken in good-faith and were in violation of

clearly established state and federal law and the Constitution of the United States.

       188.    Defendants' actions were egregious, unnecessary, unreasonable, unlawful, and

unjustified.

       189.    As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ unreasonable and unlawful

actions, Plaintiffs and their Members have suffered and continue to suffer substantial past and

future damages, both compensatory and general, including, but not limited to, medical bills, loss

of income, severe emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment, humiliation, disfigurement,

and physical pain and suffering.

       190.    Because Defendants' and possibly other employees, agents, and/or representatives

of Defendants, were motivated by evil motive or intent and/or involved a reckless or callous

indifference to the federally protected rights of the Plaintiffs and their Members an award of

punitive damages is appropriate to the fullest extent permitted by law.




                                            Count VI
                                         42 U.S.C. §1983
                                         Monell Liability.



                                                 36
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 37 of 41




    Plaintiffs v. Delaware County Pennsylvania, Jail Oversight Board of Delaware County
                      Pennsylvania, George W. Hill Correctional Facility


       191.    Plaintiffs repeat, incorporate by reference, and realleges every allegation and every

paragraph in this Complaint as if fully set forth herein at length.

       192.    Municipal liability can attach under Monell v. Department of Social Services, 436

U.S. 658 (1978), for even a single decision made by a final policymaker in certain circumstances,

regardless of whether or not the action is taken once or repeatedly. See Pembaur v. City of Case

1:20-cv-00135-TSK Document 19 Filed 01/15/21 Page 17 of 22 PageID #: 191 18 Cincinnati,

475 U.S. 469, 481, 106 S. Ct. 1292, 89 L. Ed. 2d 452 (1986). If an authorized policymaker approves

a subordinate’s decision and the basis for it, such ratification would be chargeable to the

municipality under Monell. See City of St. Louis v. Praprotnik, 485 U.S. 112, 127 (1988).

       193.    Plaintiffs and their Members incurred financial, reputational, and psychological

harm as a direct result of Defendants' unconstitutional and unlawful actions.

       194.    While acting under the color of the law, Defendants violated Plaintiff’s and their

Members’ constitutional rights by condoning, failing to supervise, and ratifying the actions of

Defendant Williams.

       195.    Defendants' actions violated the constitutional rights guaranteed to Plaintiffs and

their Members under the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments.

       196.    Defendants' actions were not taken in good-faith and were in violation of clearly

established state and federal law and the Constitution of the United States.

       197.    Defendants' actions were egregious, unnecessary, unreasonable, unlawful, and

unjustified.




                                                 37
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 38 of 41




       198.    As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ unreasonable and unlawful

actions, Plaintiffs and their Members have suffered and continue to suffer substantial past and

future damages, both compensatory and general, including, but not limited to, medical bills, loss

of income, severe emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment, humiliation, disfigurement,

and physical pain and suffering.

       199.    Because Defendants' and possibly other employees, agents, and/or representatives

of Defendants, were motivated by evil motive or intent and/or involved a reckless or callous

indifference to the federally protected rights of the Plaintiffs and their Members an award of

punitive damages is appropriate to the fullest extent permitted by law.


                                            Count VII
                           Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
               Plaintiffs v. Kevin Madden, Laura Williams, Cheyenne Marquette


       200.    Plaintiffs repeat, incorporate by reference, and realleges every allegation and every

paragraph in this Complaint as if fully set forth herein at length.

       201.    Defendants engaged in actions that were atrocious, intolerable, and so extreme and

outrageous as to exceed the bounds of decency.

       202.    Defendants acted with the intent to inflict emotional distress or acted recklessly

when it was certain or substantially certain that emotional distress would result from Defendants'

outrageous conduct.

       203.    Defendants' actions caused Plaintiff’s Members to suffer severe emotional distress

and other injury.

       204.    The emotional distress Plaintiff’s Members experienced was so severe, no

reasonable person could be expected to endure it.



                                                 38
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 39 of 41




       205.    As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ unreasonable and unlawful

actions, Plaintiffs and their Members have suffered and continue to suffer substantial past and

future damages, both compensatory and general, including, but not limited to, medical bills, loss

of income, severe emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment, humiliation, disfigurement,

and physical pain and suffering.

       206.    The actions of Defendants against the Plaintiffs and their Members were carried

out with (a) actual malice and/or (b) a conscious, reckless, and outrageous indifference to the

health, safety, and welfare of others, thereby justifying an award of punitive damages to the fullest

extent permitted by law.

                                          Count VIII
                                         Conspiracy
               Plaintiffs v. Kevin Madden, Laura Williams, Cheyenne Marquette

       207.    Plaintiffs repeat, incorporate by reference, and realleges every allegation and every

paragraph in this Complaint as if fully set forth herein at length.

       208.    Defendants Madden, Williams, Marquette, and others under their control combined

efforts in selecting the individuals to terminate absent due process of law, which included

Plaintiff’s Members.

       209.    This combination of efforts of Defendants Madden, Williams, Marquette, and

others under their control were undertaken to further the unlawful actions of terminating Plaintiff’s

Members absent due process of law.

       210.    This combination of efforts of Defendants Madden, Williams, Marquette, and

others under their control employed unlawful means in depriving Plaintiff’s Members of due

process of law.




                                                 39
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 40 of 41




       211.    This combination of efforts of Defendants were made by one of more of Defendants

Madden, Williams, Marquette, and others under their control pursuant to the objective of depriving

Plaintiff’s Members their due process rights in terminating their employment.

       212.    This combination of efforts of Defendants Madden, Williams, Marquette, and

others under their control resulted in damage to Plaintiff’s Members including but not limited to

their termination from employment and damage to their reputation and standing in the community.

       213.    As a direct and proximate result of the Defendants’ unreasonable and unlawful

actions, Plaintiffs and their Members have suffered and continue to suffer substantial past and

future damages, both compensatory and general, including, but not limited to, medical bills, loss

of income, severe emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment, humiliation, disfigurement,

and physical pain and suffering.

       214.    The actions of Defendants against the Plaintiffs and their Members were carried

out with (a) actual malice and/or (b) a conscious, reckless, and outrageous indifference to the

health, safety, and welfare of others, thereby justifying an award of punitive damages to the fullest

extent permitted by law.


                                        JURY DEMAND

       PLAINTIFF demands a jury trial on all issues to be tried.




                            DEMAND TO PRESERVE EVIDENCE

       The Defendants are hereby demanded to preserve all physical and electronic information

pertaining in any way to PLAINTIFF’s Members’ employment, to their potential claims, their

claims to damages, to any defenses to same, including, but not limited to electronic data storage,

employment files, files, memos, job descriptions, text messages, e-mails, spreadsheets, images,

                                                 40
         Case 2:24-cv-01215-KNS Document 1 Filed 03/21/24 Page 41 of 41




cache memory, payroll records, paystubs, time records, timesheets, and any other information

and/or data which may be relevant to any claim or defense in this litigation.


                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF

       WHEREFORE, PLAINTIFFS demand judgment against Defendants, jointly and

severally, in an amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, punitive damages,

equitable damages, liquidated damages, statutory damages, attorney’s fees, costs, and

disbursement of action under 42 U.S.C. §1988 and otherwise, and for such other relief as the Court

deems equitable, just, and proper.



                                                     Respectfully submitted,

Date: March 21, 2024                         DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
                                                 By: /s/ Timothy J. Prol, Esq.__
                                                 Timothy J. Prol, Esq.
                                                 1835 Market Street, Suite 2950
                                                 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
                                                 Phone: (215) 391-4790
                                                 tim@dereksmithlaw.com
                                                 Attorneys for Plaintiffs




                                                41
