Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/68230773/1/sryfi-v-trustees-of-the-university-of-pennsylvania/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in Sryfi v. Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania (E.D. Pa., 2:24-cv-00567) – CourtListener.com

          Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 1 of 25




                 IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
             FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA
____________________________________
                                     :
MBAREK SRYFI                         : Jury Trial Demanded
                                     :
                                     :
                        Plaintiff,   :
            v.                       :
                                     : Civil Action No. 24-567
TRUSTEES OF THE                      :
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA,          :
                                     :
                        Defendants. :
____________________________________:

       Plaintiff, Mbarek Sryfi by and through his attorneys, Derek Smith Law Group, PLLC,

hereby files the following civil action complaint against Defendants, Trustees of the University of

Pennsylvania (“Penn” or “Defendant”). Plaintiff’s Charge of Discrimination also named the

following individuals who aided and abetted the discriminatory conduct alleged: (1) Heather

Sharkey, (2) Christina Frei, (3) Joseph Lowry, and (4) Jeffrey Kallberg. Plaintiff’s case is

presented to remedy violations of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as codified, 42 U.S.C.

§§ 2000e to 20003-17 (amended in 1972, 1978, by the Civil Rights Act of 1991, Pub. L. No. 102-

166) (“Title VII”); the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §12102 et. seq.

(“ADA”); and the Age Discrimination Employment Act (“ADEA”).

       Plaintiff’s Charge of Discrimination was filed at the Equal Employment Opportunity

Commission and dual filed with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”), and

the Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations (“PCHR”). Plaintiff will add claims against

the individual Defendant under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act and the Philadelphia Fair

Practice Ordinance when Plaintiff is legally permitted, under the Commonwealth and City

antidiscrimination laws.
             Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 2 of 25




                                             PARTIES

       1.       Plaintiff, Mbarek Sryfi (“Mr. Sryfi” or “Plaintiff”) is an adult male who resides in

Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940.

       2.       Defendant, Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania (“Trustees” or “Penn” or

“Defendant”) is a business organization which is licensed to and regularly transacts business in the

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with offices for the purposes of service at 255 South 36th Street,

Philadelphia, PA 19104.

       3.       Trustees is a public agency of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of

Human Services and receives public funding including funding through Medicaid and Medicare.

       4.       At all times relevant to this civil action, Heather Sharkey (“Ms. Sharkey”), was

employed Penn and worked in the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations.

       5.       At all times relevant to this civil action, Christina Frei (“Ms. Frei”), was employed

by Penn and held the position, Executive Director of Language instruction.

       6.       At all times relevant to this civil action, Paul Cobb (“Mr. Cobb”), was employed

by Penn and worked in Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations.

       7.       At all times relevant to this civil action, Jeffrey Kallberg (“Mr. Kallberg”), was

employed by Penn and held the position, Associate Dean.

       8.       At all times relevant to this civil action, Penn was Plaintiff’s employer.

       9.       Plaintiff was employed by Penn and worked as a Lecturer in Foreign Languages in

the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations (hereinafter “NELC”).

       10.      The individuals identified above held supervisory authority over Plaintiff and used

that authority to subject Plaintiff to a tangible employment action by intentionally separating

Plaintiff from his employment and causing Plaintiff to suffer economic losses and other losses

more fully set forth below.
              Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 3 of 25




                                   JURISDICTION AND VENUE

        11.      Jurisdiction in this Court is proper as Plaintiff’s case is presented to remedy

violations of federal statutes, including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age

Discrimination in Employment Act (“ADEA”), the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), and

42 U.S.C. § 1981.

        12.      Plaintiff intends to add additional counts for violations of the Pennsylvania Human

Relations Act (“PHRA”) and the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance “PFPO”) when Plaintiff is

legally permitted to do so.

        13.      The Commonwealth and City laws require Plaintiff to exhaust his administrative

remedies before filing in Court.

        14.      Plaintiff filed a Charge of Discrimination under the PHRA and the PFPO in March

2023.

        15.      Plaintiff may file in court under the Commonwealth and City antidiscrimination

laws sometime after April 2024.

        16.      This Court does have supplemental jurisdiction over any Commonwealth Law

Causes of Action or causes of action under Philadelphia ordinance.

        17.      Venue is proper in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania as Plaintiff was employed

by Defendants, worked in Philadelphia County, lives in Bucks County, and the events that gave

rise to Plaintiff’s claims occurred within the Eastern District of Pennsylvania jurisdiction.

        18.      Sometime around March 2023, Plaintiff filed a Charge of Discrimination with the

Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”).

        19.      Plaintiff’s Charge was dual filed with the PHRC and the PCHR.
             Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 4 of 25




       20.      All of the employees named above were identified by name in Plaintiff’s Charge

of Discrimination.

       21.      Plaintiff’s rights under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act and the

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance will be ripe for suit one year after Plaintiff’s Charge of

Discrimination was dual filed at the PHRC and the PCHR .

       22.      The EEOC issued and sent a Dismissal and Notice of Rights to Plaintiff which set

forth the requirement that Plaintiff file a civil action within ninety (90) days of the Dismissal and

Notice of Rights.

       23.      This action is hereby commenced within ninety (90) days of the date when

Plaintiff received the Dismissal and Notice of Rights which is dated and sent to Plaintiff on

November 9, 2023.

                                       MATERIAL FACTS

       24.      At all times relevant to this civil action, Plaintiff, Mbarek Sryfi, was a Lecturer in

Foreign language, in the NELC department.

       25.      Plaintiff taught Aribic in the NELC department, and for a time, Plaintiff also held

the position, Coordinator of the Arabic Program.

       26.      Plaintiff began his employment with Penn around July 2004, as a Lecturer of Aribic

in the NELC department.

       27.      Plaintiff’s employment continued for nearly twenty years, until Defendants

separated Plaintiff from his employment sometime around June 2023.

       28.      Plaintiff worked in Defendants’ Philadelphia offices located at 255 South 36th

Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104.

       29.      During his employment, Plaintiff was praised for his performance as a Lecturer.
             Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 5 of 25




       30.      Defendant promoted Plaintiff the year before Plaintiff’s termination, and asked

Plaintiff to take on more responsibility as the Coordinator of the Aribic Program.

       31.      Plaintiff, Mbarek Sryfi was terminated and replaced with an employee who was

significantly younger such that the circumstances of Plaintiff’s termination and replacement create

an inference that Plaintiff’s termination was motivated by age discrimination.

       32.      Defendant terminated Mbarek Sryfi and replaced his with a much younger person.

       33.      Defendant also terminated another older employee, Emad Rushdie, who was fifty-

six (56) years old at the time of the termination.

       34.      Defendant replaced Emad Rushdie with a person who was significantly younger

than both Emad Rushdie and Mbarek Sryfi.

       35.      Within a two year time, Defendants significantly lowered the average age of Aribic

Lecturers by separating two much older employees and replacing them both with two much

younger employees.

       36.      The reasons offered by Defendant to explain the termination of both Emad Rushdie

and Mbarek Sryfi were pretextual.

       37.      The same decision-makers behind Emad Rushdie’s termination made the decision

to terminate Mbarek Sryfi.

       38.      It was reported that Paul Cobb said that the objective was to hire “younger

lecturers” with “more energy.”

       39.      It was reported that Heather Sharkey and Christina Frei said that Emad Rushdie

was “getting old” and that the University was looking for someone “more energetic.”

       40.      Plaintiff, Mbarek Sryfi held the position of Coordinator of the Arabic Program

until Plaintiff was replaced by another person who was significantly younger.
             Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 6 of 25




       41.       Plaintiff remained employed by Defendant for nearly twenty years, from 2004 until

June 30, 2023.

       42.       Plaintiff’s employment ended when Defendant intentionally separated Plaintiff

from his employment.

       43.       The separation caused Plaintiff to suffer economic losses and other losses including

emotional harm, loss of enjoyment of life, and other nonpecuniary losses.

       44.       Mbarek Sryfi was told that the reason for the separation of employment was due to

Mbarek Sryfi’s age.

       45.       Plaintiff was told that the termination was part of a plan to end the employment of

older employees and make room for younger employees.

       46.       Plaintiff was told that he was part of an older generation that needed to be replaced.

       47.       The words said to Plaintiff were that Plaintiff was part of an “older era that needed

to end.”

       48.       Plaintiff was informed that the plan was to replace older employees with younger

employees. The terminology that was used to express these objectives was that they needed to

“make room for new blood.”

       49.       These comments were made Joseph Lowry and Healthy Sharkey, around June

2022, in the context of separating Plaintiff from the Coordinator of the Arabic Program position.

       50.       Almost the exact same thing happened to Emad Rushdie.

       51.       Emad Rushdie held the position of Coordinator of the Arabic Program position.

       52.       Defendant separated Emad Rushdie from the Coordinator of the Arabic Program

position, as a precursor to the termination which followed soon thereafter.
               Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 7 of 25




         53.      Plaintiff, Mbarek Sryfi was also separated from the Coordinator of the Arabic

Program position, as a precursor to the termination which followed soon thereafter.

         54.      The person who replaced Mbarek Sryfi in the Coordinator of the Arabic Program

position, was much younger.

         55.      At the time, Plaintiff was sixty-one (61) years old.

         56.      Plaintiff’s replacement for the Coordinator of the Arabic Program position, was at

least twenty years younger.

         57.      Plaintiff was notified that the decision to remove Plaintiff from the Coordinator

position had nothing to do with performance or disciplinary issues.

         58.      Defendant admitted that the decision was motivated by the objective to hire new

blood.

         59.      Defendant explained what this meant and Plaintiff was informed that the decision

was about filling the position with someone younger.

         60.      Plaintiff had never been subject of discipline.

         61.      Plaintiff was not the subject of performance issues.

         62.      Defendant removed Plaintiff from the position of Coordinator of the Arabic

Program and the position was assigned to a significantly younger, female employee.

         63.      Within a two year period, Defendant continued to replace older employees with

younger employees.

         64.      This discriminatory policy specifically impacted the Department of Near Eastern

Languages and Civilizations.

         65.      Joe Lowry openly spoke about the motivation to end the employment of Plaintiff

as early as September 2021.
              Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 8 of 25




        66.      Discriminatory comments about replacing older employees with younger people

were made several times by people like Paul Cobb, Joseph Lowry, Heather Sharkey, and Christina

Frei.

        67.      Christina Frei spoke in front of witnesses, about the unlawful motivation to develop

a pretextual reason for separating Plaintiff from his employment.

        68.      Christina Frei said that they needed to “build a case” against Plaintiff in order to

end Plaintiff’s employment.

        69.      Plaintiff was subjected to discrimination because of his age, race and disability

which led to Plaintiff being subjected to adverse employment actions including but not limited to

removal a position and termination.

        70.      Defendant attempted to build a case against Plaintiff and disparage Plaintiff, so that

Defendant could try and justify illegal decisions.

        71.      Plaintiff stated a desire to continue his employment.

        72.      Defendant refused to allow Plaintiff to continue his employment.

        73.      In December 2022, Defendant notified Plaintiff that the separation was coming and

there was nothing Plaintiff could do to stop it.

        74.      Defendant informed Plaintiff that his final semester teaching at Penn in the

Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations would be the Spring Semester, 2023.

        75.      Plaintiff’s final semester would have started in January 2023.

        76.      Plaintiff was scheduled to begin his final semester in January 2023, however,

Plaintiff suffered significant and severe emotional distress caused by Defendant’s discriminatory

and disparate treatment.
             Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 9 of 25




       77.      After almost twenty (20) years of hard work and dedication, Defendant informed

Plaintiff that his final semester was about to begin, and that there was nothing Plaintiff could do

or say to change the decision.

       78.      Plaintiff was informed that the decision was based on something Plaintiff had no

control over – his membership in a protected class.

       79.      Plaintiff’s age, disability and race caused Plaintiff’s termination.

       80.      Plaintiff suffered severe mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, loss of appetite,

loss of sleep, and other issues related to the emotional distress caused by the illegal conduct and

decisions.

       81.      In December 2022, Plaintiff sought medical treatment because of the metal anguish

and emotional distress.

       82.      Plaintiff was temporarily disabled by his primary care physician and Plaintiff was

unable to begin work in January 2023, due to his medical condition and the recommendation of

treating medical providers.

       83.      Plaintiff informed Defendant and decision makers in the NELC department about

Plaintiff’s emotional distress, and the cause for needing medical treatment.

       84.      Plaintiff engaged in protected activity to report and oppose the discriminatory

comments directed at Plaintiff.

       85.      Plaintiff was subjected to severe and pervasive harassment due to Plaintiff’s

membership in the above referenced protected classes and the hostile work environment got worse

after Plaintiff’s engaged in protected activity.

       86.      At all times relevant to this Charge, Plaintiff suffered from a disability under the

Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”).
           Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 10 of 25




         87.    Plaintiff’s disability and injuries were sustained when Plaintiff was in an auto

accident sometime around 2008.

         88.    Plaintiff’s auto accident injuries qualify as a disability under the ADA because

Plaintiff’s injuries significantly impact major life activities, including, sleeping, eating, exercising,

cleaning, and other activities of daily living.

         89.    At all times relevant to this civil action, Defendant had actual notice of Plaintiff’s

disabilities.

         90.    Plaintiff informed Defendant, and decision makers in the NELC department that

Plaintiff suffered injuries in an auto accident.

         91.    Plaintiff requested reasonable accommodations due to his disabilities under the

Americans with Disabilities Act.

         92.    Defendant subjected Plaintiff to a campaign of discrimination and harassment in

the workplace due to Plaintiff’s disability.

         93.    Plaintiff engaged in protected activity by reporting the discrimination and

harassment in the workplace.

         94.    Plaintiff’s reports of discrimination and harassment in the workplace resulted in the

discrimination and harassment getting worse.

         95.    Instead of helping Plaintiff and initiating an investigation aimed toward eliminating

the discrimination and harassment in the workplace, Defendant ignored Plaintiff’s reports and

refused to initiate corrective action.

         96.    Defendant instead permitted the discrimination and harassment to continue and get

worse.
           Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 11 of 25




        97.      Plaintiff sent reports of discrimination and harassment in the workplace to Dean

Jeffrey Colberg and Plaintiff met with Dean Colberg in an attempt to report discrimination and

request help.

        98.      Plaintiff also engaged in protected activity by reporting discrimination to the office

of the Ombudsman.

        99.      Plaintiff’s reports of discrimination fell on deaf ears and Defendant did not take

action to investigate or ameliorate the ongoing illegal conduct.

        100.     As a result of Defendant’ conduct, Plaintiff was caused to sustain serious and

permanent personal injuries, including permanent psychological injuries.

        101.     As a result of Defendant’ actions, Plaintiff felt extremely humiliated, degraded,

victimized, embarrassed and emotionally distressed.

        102.     As a result of the acts and conduct complained of herein, Plaintiff has suffered and

will continue to suffer a loss of income, loss of salary, bonuses, benefits and other compensation

which such employment entails.

        103.     Plaintiff also suffered future pecuniary losses, emotional pain, humiliation,

suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.

        104.     Plaintiff has further experienced severe emotional and physical distress.

        105.     As Defendant’ conduct has been malicious, willful, outrageous, and conducted with

full knowledge of the law, Plaintiff demands Punitive Damages as against all the Defendant, jointly

and severally.

        106.     Defendant have exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination but also

retaliation.
           Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 12 of 25




        107.      Defendant at all times refused to investigate or take appropriate remedial action in

response to Plaintiff’s complaints of discrimination, harassment and hostile work environment.

        108.      Defendant discriminatory conduct was severe and pervasive, created a hostile work

environment for Plaintiff.

        109.      The above are just some examples, of some of the discrimination and retaliation to

which Defendant subjected Plaintiff.

        110.      Plaintiff claims a practice of discrimination and claims continuing violations and

makes all claims herein under the continuing violations doctrine.

        111.      Defendant have exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination but also

retaliation.


                                               COUNT I
                                      UNDER FEDERAL LAW
                                         S.C. SECTION 1981
                                    (against all named Defendants)

        112.      Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations in the proceeding paragraphs as fully

as if they were set forth at length.

        113.      42 USC Section 1981 states in relevant part as follows:

                       (a) Statement of equal rights All persons within the jurisdiction of the
               United States shall have the same right in every State and Territory to make
               and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, give evidence, and to the full and
               equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of persons and
               property as is enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be subject to like
               punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses, and exactions of every kind, and
               to no other. (b) “Make and enforce contracts” defined for purposes of this
               section, the term “make and enforce contracts” includes the making,
               performance, modification, and termination of contracts, and the enjoyment
               of all benefits, privileges, terms, and conditions of the contractual
               relationship. 42 U.S.C.A. § 1981.

        114.      Plaintiff, as a member of the Muslim race, was discriminated against by Defendants
            Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 13 of 25




because of his race in violation of 42 USC Section 1981 and has suffered damages as set forth

herein.

          115.   Plaintiff contracted with Defendant to provide teaching services with Defendant.

          116.   Plaintiff’s contracted teaching services were provided in exchange for promises and

guarantees provided by Defendant.

          117.   Defendant violated the agreement and separated Plaintiff from his employment

based on illegal, discriminatory motives.

          118.   Plaintiff was subjected to disparate treatment as a result of Defendant’s conduct

and discriminatory objectives.

          119.   Defendant violated their policies and protocols in order to end Plaintiff’s

employment.

          120.   Plaintiff also claims unlawful retaliation under 42 U.S.C. 1981 for his opposition

to Defendants' unlawful employment practices.

                                            COUNT II
                             DISCRIMINATION UNDER TITLE VII
                               (against corporate Defendants only)

          121.   Plaintiff, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding paragraphs

as fully as if they were set forth at length.

          122.   This claim is authorized and instituted pursuant to the provisions of Title VII of the

Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. Section(s) 2000e et seq., as amended, for relief based upon

the unlawful employment practices of the above-named Defendants. Plaintiff complains of

Defendants’ violation of Title VII's prohibition against discrimination in employment based, in

whole or in part, upon an employee's race and religion.

          123.   SEC. 2000e-2. [Section 703] states as follows:

                 (a) Employer practices
              Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 14 of 25




                 It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer -
                 (1) to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to
                 discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms,
                 conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such individual’s race, color,
                 religion, sex, or national origin; or
                 (2) to limit, segregate, or classify his employees or applicants for employment in
                 any way which would deprive or tend to deprive any individual of employment
                 opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his status as an employee, because of
                 such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.

        124.     Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by 42 U.S.C.
§2000e et seq., by discriminating against Plaintiff because of his race, religion, age and
disability.


                                             COUNT III
                                 RETALIATION UNDER TITLE VII
                                 (against corporate Defendants only)

        125.     Plaintiff, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        126.     Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3(a) provides that

it shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer: “(1) to…discriminate against any of his

employees…because [s]he has opposed any practice made an unlawful employment practice by this

subchapter, or because [s]he has made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any matter in an

investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this subchapter.”

        127.     Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et

seq. by retaliating against Plaintiff with respect to the terms, conditions, and/or privileges of his employment

because of his opposition to and reporting of the unlawful employment practices of Defendants.

        128.     Defendants acted against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants’

discrimination and harassment of Plaintiff.
              Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 15 of 25




        129.     Defendants also acted against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s protected activity in reporting and

opposing discrimination.

                                  COUNT IV
       DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
                      (against corporate Defendants only)


        130.     Plaintiff, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        131.     Section 102 of the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) states in relevant

part as follows: (a) GENERAL RULE - No covered entity shall discriminate against a qualified

individual with a disability because of the disability of such individual in regard to job

application procedures, the hiring, advancement, or discharge of employees, employee

compensation, job training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment.

        132.     Plaintiff was capable of performing the duties with or without a reasonable

accommodation.

        133.     Plaintiff is a “qualified individual with a disability” as defined in 42 U.S.C. §

12131(2).

        134.     Plaintiff attempted to request reasonable accommodations due to Plaintiff’s

disability.

        135.     Defendant continually, intentionally, and in a discriminatory manner refused to

allow Plaintiff to work due to Plaintiff’s disabled status.

        136.     Defendants subjected Plaintiff to discriminatory conditions due to Plaintiff’s

disability.

        137.     Defendants refused to engage Plaintiff in an interactive process to discuss

reasonable accommodations requested.
          Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 16 of 25




       138.    Defendants’ termination of Plaintiff was not based on any medical justification

and was discriminatory as to Plaintiff.

       139.    Defendant terminated Plaintiff because of his disability.

       140.    Such adverse employment action by Defendant were in violation of the ADA.

       141.    As a result of Defendant’s actions, Plaintiff has suffered irreparable injuries,

including but not limited to loss of pay, benefits and other economic losses, emotional pain and

suffering, mental anguish, humiliation, embarrassment, personal indignity and other intangible

injuries for all of which she should be compensated.

       142.    Plaintiff also claims unlawful retaliation under the ADA for his opposition to

Defendant’s unlawful employment practice.

       143.    Plaintiff makes claims for all damages available under the ADA

                                   COUNT V
         RETALIATION UNDER THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
                      (against corporate Defendants only)


       144.    Plaintiff, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

       145.    Plaintiff claims Defendants violated the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990

(Pub. L. 101-336) (ADA), as amended, as these titles appear in volume 42 of the United States

Code, beginning at section 12101.

       146.    Title 42 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Chapter 126, Subchapter

IV, Section 12203, Discrimination [Section 102] states:

           a. “(a) Retaliation. No person shall discriminate against any individual because such

               individual has opposed any act or practice made unlawful by this chapter or
           Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 17 of 25




                because such individual made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any

                manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter.

            b. (b) Interference, coercion, or intimidation. It shall be unlawful to coerce,

                intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any individual in the exercise or enjoyment

                of, or on account of his or her having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or

                her having aided or encouraged any other individual in the exercise or enjoyment

                of, any right granted or protected by this chapter.

    147.    Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by retaliating against

            Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s reports of discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

    148.    As such, Plaintiff has been damaged as set forth herein.

                                      COUNT VI
                         DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE AGE
                      DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT ACT
                          (against Corporate Defendants Only)


        149.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the above paragraphs as

fully as if they were set forth at length.

        150.    Section 626 of the ADEA provided it shall be unlawful for an employer:

                    i. to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual or otherwise

                        discriminate against an individual with respect to their compensation,

                        terms, conditions or privileges of employment, because of such

                        individual’s age;

                    ii. to limit, segregate, or classify their employees in any way which would

                        deprive or tent to deprive any individual of employment opportunities or
          Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 18 of 25




                          otherwise adversely affect his status as an employee, because of such

                          individual’s age; or

                     iii. to reduce the wage rate of any employee in order to comply with this

                          chapter.

                      iv. It shall be unlawful for an employment agency to fail or refuse to refer for

                          employment, or otherwise to discriminate against, any individual because

                          of such individual’s age, or to classify or refer for employment any

                          individual on the basis of such individual’s age.

       151.        Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by Section 626

of the ADEA by discriminating against Plaintiff because of his age.

       152.        Defendants’ age-based comments and conduct were severe and pervasive and

occurred on a daily and/or weekly basis so that Plaintiff could not escape the discrimination and

harassment in the workplace.

       153.        Accordingly, Plaintiff was subjected to a hostile work environment due to

Plaintiff’s age.

       154.        Defendants’ conduct was severe in that Defendants engaged in acts of

discrimination and harassment sufficient to create a hostile work environment.

       155.        Defendants’ conduct was pervasive in that Defendants continually subjected

Plaintiff to abuse, ridicule, insults, criticism, contempt, and scorn, day after day so that Plaintiff

was forced to endure age-based discrimination and harassment in the workplace on a daily and/or

weekly basis.

       156.        Defendants subjected Plaintiff to disparate treatment by terminating Plaintiff’s

employment because of his age and unilaterally eliminating Plaintiff’s hospital privileges.
          Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 19 of 25




                                      COUNT VII
                           RETALIATION UNDER THE AGE
                      DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT ACT
                          (Against Corporate Defendants Only)


       157.     Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the above paragraphs as

fully as if they were set forth at length.

                    i. Section 623 (d) of the ADEA states the following: “It shall be unlawful for

                        an employer to discriminate against any of his employees or applicants for

                        employment, for an employment agency to discriminate against any

                        individual, or for a labor organization to discriminate against any member

                        thereof or applicant for membership, because such individual, member or

                        applicant for membership has opposed any practice made unlawful by this

                        section, or because such individual, member or application for

                        membership has made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any

                        manner in an investigation, proceeding, or litigation under this chapter.”

        158.    Defendants violated Section 623 (d) of the ADEA because Defendants

discriminated against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s complaints of Defendants’ unlawful employment

practices as previously set forth herein.

        159.    Plaintiff opposed and/or reported the continual discrimination and harassment in

the workplace and Defendants’ conduct continued and ratcheted up.

        160.    Moreover, Plaintiff was subjected to disciplinary measures such as counseling and

termination after Plaintiff opposed and/or reported the discrimination and harassment in the

workplace.
          Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 20 of 25




                                         COUNT VIII
                          DISCRIMINATION UNDER STATE LAW
                        (Placeholder – This Count is not ripe for suit yet)


        161.    Plaintiff, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        162.    The PHRA § 955 provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice:

"(a) For any employer because of the race, color, religious creed, ancestry, age, sex, national

origin or non-job related handicap or disability or the use of a guide or support animal because of

the blindness, deafness or physical handicap of any individual or independent contractor, to

refuse to hire or employ or contract with, or to bar or to discharge from employment such

individual or independent contractor, or to otherwise discriminate against such individual or

independent contractor with respect to compensation, hire, tenure, terms, conditions or privileges

of employment or contract, if the individual or independent contractor is the best able and most

competent to perform the services required."

        163.    Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating

against the Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s race, religion, age, and disability.

        164.    Defendants also engaged in unlawful discriminatory conduct by discriminating

against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s disability and request for reasonable accommodations.

        165.    Defendants refused to provide Plaintiff with reasonable accommodations and did

not engage Plaintiff in an interactive process to discuss Plaintiff’s requests.

        166.    Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all of the applicable

paragraphs of the PHRA § 955.
           Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 21 of 25




                                          COUNT IX
                            RETALIATION UNDER STATE LAW
                        (Placeholder – This Count is not ripe for suit yet)


        167.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        168.    PHRA § 955(d) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: " For

any person, employer, employment agency or labor organization to discriminate in any manner

against any individual because such individual has opposed any practice forbidden by this act, or

because such individual has made a charge, testified or assisted, in any manner, in any

investigation, proceeding or hearing under this act."

        169.    Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discharging,

retaliating, and otherwise discriminating against the Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s opposition to

the unlawful employment practices of Plaintiff’s employer.

        170.    Specifically, Defendants acted against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s opposition to

Defendants’ discrimination and harassment of Plaintiff.

        171.    Defendants also acted against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s requests for reasonable

accommodation and reports of unlawful discriminatory conduct due to Plaintiff’s disability.



                                      COUNT X
          DISCRIMINATION UNDER STATE LAW – AIDING AND ABETTING
                   (Placeholder – This Count is not ripe for suit yet)


        172.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.
          Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 22 of 25




        173.    PHRA § 955(e) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: " For

any person, employer, employment agency, labor organization or employee, to aid, abet, incite,

compel or coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory

practice, or to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with the provisions of this act or

any order issued thereunder, or to attempt, directly or indirectly, to commit any act declared by

this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice."

        174.    Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of PHRA

§955(e) by committing assault and battery, aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling and coercing

the discriminatory conduct.

        175.    Defendants aided and abetting the above discrimination based on Plaintiff’s race,

religion, age and due to Plaintiff’s disability.

                                       COUNT XI
                              DISCRIMINATION UNDER
                 PHILADELPHIA CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORDINANCE
                     (Placeholder – This Count is not ripe for suit yet)


        176.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        177.    The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) provides that "It shall be

an unlawful discriminatory practice: “It shall be an unlawful employment practice to deny or

interfere with the employment opportunities of an individual based upon his or her race,

ethnicity, color, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition), sexual

orientation, gender identity, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, disability, marital status,

familial status, genetic information, or domestic or sexual violence victim status, including, but

not limited to, the following: (a) For any employer to refuse to hire, discharge, or otherwise
          Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 23 of 25




discriminate against any individual, with respect to tenure, promotions, terms, conditions or

privileges of employment or with respect to any matter directly or indirectly related to

employment."

        178.    Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) by creating and maintaining discriminatory

working conditions, and otherwise discriminating against Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s

disability, age, race, and religion.

        179.    Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all of the applicable

paragraphs of Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance Chapter 9-1100.

        180.    Plaintiff claims violations of the Philadelphia Fair Practice Ordnance due to

Defendants’ discrimination against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s race, age, religion and disability.

                                       COUNT XII
                              RETALIATION UNDER THE
                 PHILADELPHIA CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORDINANCE
                     (Placeholder – This Count is not ripe for suit yet)


        181.    Plaintiff, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        182.    The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(g) provides that it shall be

unlawful discriminatory practice: " For any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage, or

otherwise penalize, retaliate or discriminate in any manner against any person because he, she or

it has complied with the provisions of this Chapter, exercised his, her or its rights under this

Chapter, enjoyed the benefits of this Chapter, or made a charge, testified or assisted in any

manner in any investigation, proceeding or hearing hereunder.”
             Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 24 of 25




        183.    Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(g) by discriminating against the Plaintiff

because of Plaintiff’s opposition to the unlawful employment practices of Plaintiff’s employer.



                                COUNT XIII
                        DISCRIMINATION UNDER
PHILADELPHIA CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORDINANCE – AIDING AND ABETTING
               (Placeholder – This Count is not ripe for suit yet)


        184.    Plaintiff hereby incorporates all allegations contained in the proceeding

paragraphs as fully as if they were set forth at length.

        185.    The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) provides that it shall be

unlawful discriminatory practice: "For any person to aid, abet, incite, induce, compel or coerce

the doing of any unlawful employment practice or to obstruct or prevent any person from

complying with the provisions of this Section or any order issued hereunder or to attempt

directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this Section to be an unlawful employment

practice."

        186.    Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) by aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling

and coercing the above discriminatory, unlawful and retaliatory conduct. The individual

Defendants aided and abetting the campaign of discrimination, harassment and retaliation against

Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s race, religion, age and disability and in retaliation for Plaintiff

opposing said discrimination and harassment in the workplace.
           Case 2:24-cv-00567-JP Document 1 Filed 02/07/24 Page 25 of 25




                                           JURY DEMAND

Plaintiff requests a jury trial on all issued to be tried.



                                       PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment against Defendants, jointly and severally, in an

amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, punitive damages, liquidated damages,

statutory damaged, attorney’s fees, costs, and disbursement of action; and for such other relief as

the Court deems just and proper.



                                                         DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC



                                                   By:   _/s/ Seth D. Carson________________
                                                          Seth D. Carson, Esquire
                                                          1835 Market Street, Suite 2950
                                                          Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103
                                                          Phone: 215.391.4790
                                                          Email: seth@dereksmithlaw.com

DATED: February 6, 2024
