Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/67736995/1/grimes-v-immaculata-university/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in GRIMES v. IMMACULATA UNIVERSITY (E.D. Pa., 2:23-cv-03357) – CourtListener.com

             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 1 of 29




                      IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


 DIANE GRIMES                                     :
 52 Neeta Trail                                   :
 Medford Lakes, NJ 08055                          :
                                                  :
                        Plaintiff                 : CIVIL ACTION NO.
                                                  :
                 vs.                              :
                                                  :
 IMMACULATA UNIVERSITY                            :
 1145 W King Road                                 : JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
 Immaculata, PA 19345                             :
                                                  :
                        Defendant.                :


                                           COMPLAINT
       Plaintiff, Diane Grimes (“Professor Grimes” or “Plaintiff”), by and through her

undersigned attorneys, Griesing Mazzeo Law, LLC, hereby files this Complaint and initiates this

action to seek redress against her employer, Defendant, Immaculata University (“Immaculata,” the

“University,” or “Defendant”), for unlawful age discrimination and retaliation in violation of the

Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (“ADEA”), unlawful gender discrimination and

retaliation in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (“Title VII”) and Title IX of the

Education Amendments of 1972 (“Title IX”), unequal pay in violation of the Equal Pay Act, 29

U.S.C. § 206 et seq., violation of the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act 43 P.S. § 951 (“PHRA”),

breach of contract, conversion, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.

                                             PARTIES

       1.      Plaintiff, Diane Grimes, is an adult woman residing at 52 Neeta Trail, Medford

Lakes, NJ 08055. Professor Grimes is currently employed by Defendant and has been since 2005.




                                                  1
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 2 of 29




        2.      Defendant, Immaculata University is an institution of higher education driven by

Catholic Intellectual tradition and has a principal place of business at 1145 West King Road,

Immaculata, PA 19345.

        3.      At all relevant times, Defendant has received federal financial assistance and is

subject to the provisions prohibiting discrimination under Title IX.

        4.      At all relevant times, Defendant, who employs more than 20 employees, is and has

been an “employer” as defined under the laws at issue in this suit and is accordingly subject to the

provisions therein.

        5.      At all relevant times, Plaintiff was and is an “employee” of Defendant within the

meaning of the laws at issue in this suit and is accordingly entitled to the protections of same.

        6.      At all relevant times, employees of Immaculata acted as agents and servants of

Immaculata, within the scope of their authority and in the course of employment under the direct

control of Immaculata.

        7.      At all times relevant hereto, Immaculata acted by and through its authorized agents,

servants, workmen, and/or employees acting within the course and scope of their employment with

Immaculata and in furtherance of Immaculata’s business.

                                 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

        8.      This Court has original jurisdiction over all civil actions arising under the

Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331.

        9.      This Court has original jurisdiction over the instant action pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§

1331 and 1343 (a)(4) because it arises under the laws of the United States and seeks redress for

violations of civil rights.




                                                  2
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 3 of 29




       10.     In the alternative, this Court has diversity jurisdiction over the instant action

pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1332.

       11.     This Court has supplemental jurisdiction over any Pennsylvania state law claims

pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1367.

       12.     Venue is proper in this Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1391(b)(2) because a

substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to this action occurred in the Eastern District

of Pennsylvania.

       13.     This Court has personal jurisdiction over Immaculata.

                           PROFESSOR GRIMES OBTAINED A
                        RIGHT TO SUE LETTER FROM THE EEOC

       14.     On January 12, 2023, Professor Grimes filed a charge of discrimination with the

United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and requested that the

EEOC submit the filing to the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission.

       15.     On March 10, 2023, Immaculata filed its position statement in the aforementioned

EEOC matter.

       16.     On May 12, 2023, Professor Grimes filed her response to Immaculata’s position

statement.

       17.     On June 11, 2023, the EEOC issued A Notice of Right to Sue letter, a true and

correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit “A”.

       18.     Thus, Professor Grimes is now permitted to bring her claims that were the subject

of her EEOC action in this Court.

                                               FACTS
       19.     All of the allegations contained in the foregoing paragraphs of this Complaint are

incorporated by reference herein as if the same were set forth at length.


                                                  3
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 4 of 29




       20.     Professor Grimes is a 63-year-old woman and within the class of individuals

protected by Title VII, Title IX, and ADEA from discrimination, harassment and retaliation in

employment.

       21.     Professor Grimes is a highly skilled and accomplished tenured art professor who

has been employed by Defendant since 2005. Professor Grimes has an extensive track record in

successfully establishing a thriving department, developing highly acclaimed courses, managing a

team of art instructors, engaging in strategic planning, publishing scholarly work, community

service, showcasing artwork, presenting at international conferences, facilitating international

travel experiences for students and mentoring students.

       22.     Clearly impressed by Professor Grimes, Immaculata hired her as the Chair of its

Art Department and granted her tenure. She also received many accolades and high praise from

other faculty, students, administrators, the general art community, associations nationally and

internationally and others.

       23.     Professor Grimes served as Chair of the Art Department until 2017 when

Immaculata consolidated the Art Department into the English, Literature, Communication, and

Languages Department. Following the 2017 merger, Professor Grimes served as the Director of

Art Programs and oversaw the Fine Arts, Art History, Graphic Design and Art and Mindfulness

Programs.

       24.     Throughout her career, Professor Grimes maintained an unblemished and

commendable record. Professor Grimes is widely recognized by others in the field for her

exceptional dedication to her students and her unwavering drive to exceed the expectations of her

role, all in pursuit of the art program’s success. Her commitment and willingness to go the extra

mile have earned her a well-deserved reputation.



                                                4
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 5 of 29




       25.     Professor Grimes is and has been party to an employment agreement with the

University, entitled “Tenure Ranked Faculty Contract”, which is renewed annually (the “Faculty

Contract”). The Faculty Contract incorporates extensive University policies and procedures in the

Immaculata University Policy Manual (“Policy Manual”) to which the parties are bound. The

parties are also specifically bound by the Immaculata University Faculty Personnel Policies set

forth in Volume IV of the Policy Manual (“Personnel Policy”). The Personnel Policy expressly

provides: “Volume IV of the Immaculata University Policy Manual contains general policies and

procedures relating to the faculty that are considered binding in faculty contractual agreements.”

(italics in original). The Policy Manual, including the Personnel Policy, are also jointly referred

to as the “University Policies”. The actions giving rise to this litigation constitute breaches of the

employment agreement, the University Policies, and the policies and procedures incorporated

therein.

       26.     In February 2020, Immaculata unilaterally stripped Professor Grimes of her title

and position as Art Program Director without cause and without warning. Immaculata refused to

provide any meaningful explanation for removing Professor Grimes from her position as Director

but instead, Immaculata Vice President Angela Tekely scorned that “as V.P.,” she “could do

whatever [she] want[ed].”

       27.     Since then, Immaculata has subjected Professor Grimes to an escalating pattern of

discrimination, harassment, bullying and retaliation, and otherwise breached its obligations to

Professor Grimes.

       28.     After Professor Grimes was ousted from her roles as Department Chair and Art

Program Director, Immaculata has subjected her to unfair treatment by imposing additional

responsibilities on her without adequate compensation. In particular, when members of the



                                                  5
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 6 of 29




Immaculata administration, such as her Department Chair and the successor Art Program Director,

consistently neglected their duties as it relates to assuring that the art courses were planned, staffed,

supplied and run properly, Professor Grimes was often burdened with their essential tasks, despite

no longer holding the corresponding title, compensation, or status.

        29.     For example, neither the new Chair of the English Department, Sean Flannery

(“Chair Flannery”), nor the new Art Program Director, Sister Elaine Marie Glanz (“Sister Glanz”),

prepared a budget for art courses, ordered necessary supplies for art courses or timely arranged for

adjunct professors to teach many art courses—leaving students scrambling to meet their academic

requirements with no instructor showing up. Immaculata consistently directed that Professor

Grimes perform many of these functions when they were neglected by Chair Flannery and Director

Sister Glanz for which Professor Grimes was not compensated.

        30.     Immaculata’s insistence on Professor Grimes performing significant duties of other

staff members without receiving appropriate compensation, title or status, exemplified the

University’s discriminatory animus towards her based on gender and age. This discrimination

became evident as other tenured faculty, namely both male faculty members and younger, less

experienced faculty, were not obligated to take on similar additional responsibilities and/or were

compensated at higher rates.

        31.     In the summer of 2022, Immaculata’s discriminatory actions, mistreatment, and

harassment towards Professor Grimes reached their peak. Immaculata desecrated Professor

Grimes’ office at Loyola 323 and seized, destroyed, burned, distributed, or unlawfully disposed of

Professor Grimes’ personal belongings, research materials, instructional examples and curriculum,

artwork, academic work, course materials, intellectual property, and other belongings.




                                                   6
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 7 of 29




        32.     Professor Grimes was never informed by anyone at Immaculata that her locked

office would be accessed by anyone, let alone that the University would interfere with her private

and confidential papers stored in locked cabinets that required a concealed key to open.

        33.     Immaculata did not possess the authority, permission, or endorsement to engage in

the theft, disposal, or destruction of Professor Grimes’ professional work, which she had diligently

created, accumulated, and safeguarded over a span of 40 years. Furthermore, the individuals

authorized by Immaculata to enter her office not only ruined or discarded a significant amount of

documentation that portrayed the value of Professor Grimes’ professional work, but they also

seized and/or damaged those items. Those items included, without limitation, an entire bookcase

of twenty-five years of ongoing research memorialized on historical floppy disks, flash drives, as

well as original art.

        34.     To compound the desecration of Professor Grimes’ office, multiple witnesses

reported that members of Immaculata administration offered Professor Grimes’ books and other

personal property to faculty, passersby and cleaning staff telling them to “take whatever [they]

wanted.”

        35.     During the trashing of Professor Grimes’ office and the weeks following the

incident, witnesses also heard Sister Glanz, referring to Professor Grimes’ art and other valuable

work as “trash,” calling her a “hoarder” and otherwise harassing Professor Grimes.

        36.     Further, in violation of Professor Grimes’ contractual and legal rights as well as the

University Policies, Immaculata did not create an inventory of the items removed from her office

or arrange for storage or safekeeping.




                                                  7
               Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 8 of 29




         37.    Upon information and belief, it is alleged that members of Immaculata

administration dispersed confidential student records and personal documents belonging to

Professor Grimes throughout her office. These documents included personal letters, journals,

copies of her passport, and her University contracts containing her salary details. Immaculata

irresponsibly left Professor Grimes’ office unlocked for an extended period, thereby granting

unrestricted access to these private and confidential materials, which were originally stored within

a locked cabinet in her locked private office.

         38.    When she arrived on campus on August 30, 2022, Professor Grimes first learned of

the infringement upon her privacy, interference with her property rights, and breach of her

contractual employment rights, and disparaging comments made about her and her work. To her

dismay, she discovered her office door wide open, bookshelves stripped of their contents, file

cabinets emptied, and confidential documents scattered around. Furthermore, her personal

belongings were carelessly placed in the hallway.          Professor Grimes promptly informed

Immaculata about the distressing state of her office. Regrettably, Immaculata chose to leave her

office unlocked and accessible to anyone, prolonging the compromised security of her personal

space.

         39.    Immaculata did not take any action to assist Professor Grimes in reclaiming the

belongings that were improperly taken from her office or given away by Sister Glanz without

Professor Grimes’ knowledge or consent.

         40.    The proffered excuse for Immaculata’s plundering of Professor Grimes’ University

office—that it needed to be “cleaned”—was a pretext. A thorough examination of both faculty

and administration offices across the Immaculata campus reveals that the assault on Professor

Grimes’ campus office, as well as the destruction and disposal of her belongings, amounted to



                                                 8
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 9 of 29




discriminatory behavior based on gender and age. Specifically, there are several other tenured

faculty members and administrators, particularly men, whose offices exhibit disorder, unnecessary

clutter, potential safety hazards, and a lack of organization compared to Professor Grimes’ office.

For instance, one male faculty member consistently showcases lit holiday candles in his office,

posing a fire hazard, and keeps a throw rug on the floor that presents a further fire and tripping

hazard. Further, another male faculty member’s office (which is far more overcrowded than

Professor Grimes’ office) is swarming with an array of papers and objects, posing a genuine safety

hazard, but was showcased and celebrated in the University magazine and regarded as being

“worthy of Smithsonian designation.”

        41.    Furthermore, in an attempt to rationalize its actions, Immaculata made false claims

that Professor Grimes had not complied with previous requests to tidy up her office. This assertion

is untrue.

        42.    Under University policy and the contractual terms of her employment, Professor

Grimes is entitled to her own personal office as a tenured faculty member. Specifically, the

Personnel Policy, Volume IV, Appendix 15E states, in pertinent part: “Faculty Offices Private

offices are provided for all ranked faculty members” (bold in original). Yet, Professor Grimes was

pressured to allow Sister Glanz and others to use and encroach upon her dedicated “private” office

space. Upon information and belief, no male faculty member was pressured to sharing or

accommodating others in their dedicated “private” office space.

        43.    Whenever Immaculata requested rearrangements or reorganizations that allowed

others to store their belongings in Professor Grimes’ office, thus relinquishing the private space

assigned to and rightfully belonging to Professor Grimes, she accommodated those requests. These

encroachments violated the University’s obligations as outlined in Immaculata Personnel Policy



                                                9
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 10 of 29




(Volume IV, Appendix 15E, Page 117) which mandates the provision of a private secure office

for tenured ranked professors, such as Professor Grimes, and breached the terms of Professor

Grimes’ Faculty Contract.       Professor Grimes went above and beyond to accommodate

Immaculata’s unjustifiable demands, but it proved insufficient for Immaculata.

       44.     The intrusion into Professor Grimes’ privacy, the theft, confiscation, and

destruction of her personal belongings served no valid purpose. Immaculata’s sole intention was

to inflict harm upon Professor Grimes, undermine her professional standing, discard her

intellectual property, and decades of her research.

       45.     Following the devastating incident and Professor Grimes’ reporting of it as

discriminatory and harassing, Immaculata caused her to face acts of retaliation, social exclusion,

and avoidance from various members of the faculty and administration with whom she previously

had amicable relationships.

       46.     Since disclosing this highly inappropriate behavior, Immaculata has further

retaliated against and harassed Professor Grimes. Specifically, Immaculata Vice President Tekely

has misused her authority by spearheading a campaign to isolate and humiliate Professor Grimes,

even openly shunning her in the presence of a witness as recently as November 17, 2022. After

being made aware of the impropriety of the shunning, Immaculata Vice President Tekely singled

out Professor Grimes for an ostentatious display of greeting. Both extreme actions by Immaculata,

which were witnessed by many others, reflect differential treatment towards Professor Grimes

compared to male and/or younger faculty.

       47.     Immaculata has been on notice since at least August 30, 2022, of these offenses

directed at Professor Grimes and has failed to discipline those responsible or to take prompt action

to stop the abuse and to compensate Professor Grimes for her loss. The University, instead of



                                                10
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 11 of 29




acknowledging its wrongdoing, has chosen to downplay the situation and persistently retaliates

against Professor Grimes, subjecting her to escalating levels of unfair treatment.

       48.      With respect to gender, Immaculata discriminated against Professor Grimes in

several ways. For example, the following reflect further discriminatory treatment of Professor

Grimes based on gender:

             a. Immaculata paid Professor Grimes significantly less than her male counterparts and

                imposed additional responsibilities on her that were not expected of similarly

                tenured male faculty members;

             b. The University singled Professor Grimes out forcing her to accommodate others in

                her assigned private office even though male faculty members did not have to do

                so. The University also singled out Professor Grimes for unauthorized entry into

                her office, opening her locked file cabinet, exposing her personal information to

                public view, destroying or trashing her property without permission or justification,

                and offering her property to others to take if they pleased. Further, the University’s

                purported explanation—that they needed to “clean” the office—is a pretext given

                how many other faculty, especially male faculty, have offices that genuinely require

                cleaning as they are potential safety hazards as described above;

             c. The University failed to acknowledge or commend Professor Grimes’ book

                publication or her extensive art work, while actively promoting and organizing

                events to celebrate the book publications of male faculty members and purchasing

                original art to honor a male faculty member’s research and publication;

             d. The University has consistently neglected and continues to neglect its responsibility

                to provide Professor Grimes with the necessary tools and resources to fulfill her



                                                 11
Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 12 of 29




   duties. This includes the failure over an extended period to provide her with a

   functional laptop and printer, while allocating substantial resources to younger

   male faculty and administrators. Such discrepancies indicate a clear discrimination

   based on both gender and age;

e. The University granted male faculty members permission to utilize the campus

   overnight guest room at no cost to them due to their long commutes, but denied

   Professor Grimes’ request to access the same accommodations despite her residing

   far away and also having a long evening commute. This decision to deny Professor

   Grimes equal access to overnight accommodations on campus was made despite

   the University being on notice that Professor Grimes was recovering from surgery,

   which impacted her vision, was remaining on campus after participating in student

   activities for the benefit of the University, and facing a hazardous drive home at

   night in a snowstorm with limited visibility;

f. The University did not shun or punish male staff members for teaching in a solely

   virtual manner while Professor Grimes was targeted for being on campus less often

   due to her medical condition and her chaperoning off campus student learning

   opportunities, as part of her University responsibilities;

g. The University reprimanded Professor Grimes for missing a faculty meeting, which

   she informed the University was due to an emergency, while male staff members

   are repeatedly excused from attending or do not attend without explanation or good

   cause; and




                                     12
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 13 of 29




             h. The University harassed Professor Grimes for displaying posters on topics of

                student interest, while allowing male faculty to post materials on campus on

                manifold subjects.

       49.      With respect to age discrimination, Immaculata Vice President Tekely, who is

significantly younger than Professor Grimes, has been instrumental in discriminating against

Grimes on the basis of her age and condoning mistreatment of Professor Grimes by others. For

example, the following reflect discriminatory treatment of Professor Grimes based on age:

             a. Immaculata authorized the purchase of new laptops for younger and less senior

                faculty members while Professor Grimes was burdened over an extended period

                with carrying around an external keyboard and mouse due to the outdated and

                malfunctioning laptop provided to her. This was particularly problematic as

                Professor Grimes relies on her laptop for remote teaching and art-related activities

                with her students;

             b. Professor Grimes has been significantly underpaid by the University compared to

                younger faculty members who have less experience and have made fewer

                contributions to Immaculata; and,

             c. In contrast to the treatment received by Professor Grimes, the University has not

                intruded upon the offices of younger faculty and staff members, confiscated and

                destroyed their belongings, or publicly denigrated their work as “trash.”

       50.      Following Professor Grimes’ report of discrimination and the damage to her

University office, she has been subjected to increasing levels of harassment and retaliation by

Immaculata. This unlawful treatment by the University and its leaders has intensified, and some

specific instances are outlined below:



                                                 13
Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 14 of 29




a. On the day of Professor Grimes’ father-in-law’s funeral, while she was grieving,

   Immaculata President Barbara Lettiere and Vice President Tekely both sent emails

   to Professor Grimes, issuing threats and reprimands for her failure to respond

   immediately even though they were on notice of her grieving and personal

   obligations that day;

b. Immaculata administration has intentionally disrupted Professor Grimes’ classes

   and monitored her teaching, despite Professor Grimes’ extensive experience and

   high student evaluations in the field of art instruction. This unwarranted monitoring

   of Professor Grimes’ teaching by members of the administration is a targeted act of

   harassment and retaliation in response to Professor Grimes’ complaints of

   discrimination. It is important to note that other faculty members have not been

   subjected to such monitoring or oversight without legitimate cause;

c. Immaculata pulled the textbook Professor Grimes authored from being used in

   course curriculums while other professors are allowed to use their published text

   books for courses, and the University subjected Professor Grimes to a committee

   review before her textbook could be used while male professors who published

   books were not subjected to the same obstacles in using their published works for

   teaching purposes;

d. The University deliberately misrepresented information to law enforcement

   authorities, leading to the local police’s failure to investigate or take appropriate

   action regarding the vandalism of Professor Grimes’ office and the theft of her

   belongings by Immaculata. These misrepresentations effectively shielded the

   perpetrators from accountability;



                                    14
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 15 of 29




             e. Immaculata administration has publicly shunned and ostracized Professor Grimes,

                creating a hostile and isolating environment for her within the academic

                community; and,

             f. Immaculata repeatedly disparages Professor Grimes by referring to her belongings

                as “trash” and calling her “a hoarder.”

       51.      Additionally, the University, in an attempt to prevent investigation and action

against those responsible for breaking into Professor Grimes’ office and file cabinet, resorted to

false and/or disparaging statements made to law enforcement. According to the Incident Report

Form prepared by Officer Kemba Daniels of the East Whiteland Township Police Department,

dated September 12, 2022, the University misrepresented the following to the Police Department:

(1) that Professor Grimes “shared” her office with another staff member; (2) that Immaculata

repeatedly instructed Professor Grimes to clean her office but Professor Grimes failed to comply;

and (3) that Professor Grimes had a “hoarding issue,” causing her office to be deemed a “fire

hazard.”

       52.      Professor Grimes has exclusively used Loyola 323 as her personal office at

Immaculata since 2005. As per her Faculty Contract and the Personnel Policy, all tenured

professors, including Professor Grimes, are entitled to their own private office. A sign outside the

door of Loyola 323 clearly designates it as Professor Grimes’ office and does not indicate any

other occupants.

       53.      Whenever Immaculata requested the use of Professor Grimes’ private workspace,

Professor Grimes accommodated the request. At the conclusion of the Spring semester in 2022,

Immaculata informed Professor Grimes that an adjunct instructor required a storage space for

supplies due to the repurposing of the Painting Room. In response, Professor Grimes agreed to



                                                 15
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 16 of 29




rearrange her own belongings during the summer to create space in her office for the adjunct,

fulfilling her commitment as promised.

       54.     There are several other campus offices assigned to male faculty in particular that

are visibly cluttered with non-teaching-related materials, which could be considered hazardous or

suggestive of hoarding behavior. However, none of these offices were singled out by Immaculata

for “cleaning” purposes.

       55.     The lies presented to law enforcement, as described above, serve as additional

evidence of Immaculata’s harassment and disparagement of Professor Grimes.

       56.     In addition, the University and its leadership demonstrated a disregard for their own

policies in relation to the inadequate investigation of the aforementioned events, their failure to

implement appropriate corrective measures or discipline those responsible, and their overall

treatment and bullying of Professor Grimes. For example, the Policy Manual Volume II

Community Policies (“Community Policies”) provide in Section 1.1.3 a “Bullying Policy” which

forbids bullying and retaliation for reporting bullying as well as mandating sanctions against those

who violate the policy.

       57.     Among other things, “Bullying” is defined in Section 2.1.3.2 of the Community

Policies to include “Verbal Bullying” and the University violated that policy through a pattern of

“intimidating, threatening [and] humiliating” Professor Grimes and by “embarrassing” Professor

Grimes and “persuading others to engage in such activities” as Sister Elaine, Vice President

Tekely, and others have done. The University also violated Section 2.1.3.2.1 “Verbal bullying” by

allowing Sister Glanz and others to engage in “name-calling, spreading malicious rumors,

threatening to cause harm, and/or persuading or encouraging another person to engage in such




                                                16
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 17 of 29




activities” by, among others, calling Professor Grimes’ art, scholarship and research “trash” and

calling her a “hoarder.”

       58.     The University violated Section 2.1.3.2.2 “Physical bullying” by “removing and

hiding belongings” as occurred when the University condoned the desecration of Professor

Grimes’ office and property and Section 2.1.3.2.3 “Relational/social status bullying” by “trying to

hurt a peer and/or that peers[sic] standing within a particular peer group often by forming coalitions

against someone, spreading rumors, embarrassing someone, excluding someone, and/or

persuading others to engage is such activities” by publicly humiliating Professor Grimes, offering

for others to “take whatever they want” of her belongings, ostracizing and encouraging others to

do so, and shunning her as Sister Glanz and Vice President Tekely have done and continue to do

openly and in the presence of others.

       59.     The University has also failed to enforce the “No Retaliation” policy of Section

2.1.3.3 or to sanction the wrongdoers under Section 2.1.3.6. To the extent that the administration

has attempted to downplay the pattern of bullying and retaliation, contending that “Sister Elaine

was only trying to help” by “cleaning the office”, Section 2.1.3.2.4 which provides: “Bullying

need not include intent to harm be directed at a specific individual, or involve repeated incidents

to constitute a violation of University policy and/or federal, state, or local law.” Even so, the facts

here support the conclusion that intent to harm existed with respect to the original incident and

through the persistent harassment and retaliation after Professor Grimes reported the egregious

breach of her privacy and property rights.

       60.     The Community Policies also provide in Section 2.1.10 for a “Non-Discrimination

and Anti-Harassment Policy and Complaint Procedures similarly prohibiting discrimination,

harassment and retaliation for reporting discrimination and harassment. The University violated


                                                  17
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 18 of 29




this Policy and Procedure by failing to put a stop to and by participating in relentless harassment

and retaliation against Professor Grimes.

       61.     This blatant disregard by the University of its own policies highlights the pretextual

nature of its excuses for mistreating and discriminating against Professor Grimes and reveals a

clear inconsistency between its stated policies and actual conduct. The University also violated

Community Policies Section 2.1.14 “Records Retention” by permitting the destruction,

incineration, trashing and conversion of University records, including student materials, curricular

materials, research, intellectual property, contracts and other records maintained in Professor

Grimes’ office in defiance of the provisions of “Filing, Archiving, and Storage of Documents”

under Section 2.1.14.2 and “Destruction of Documents” under Section 2.1.14.4. These specific

policies cover “all records, regardless of form, that are made, produced, executed, received or

maintained by employees of the University in the course of carrying out University functions.

Records and documentation created in the course of research, whether internally or externally

funded are also subject to record-keeping requirements.”

       62.     The University violated Section 2.3 “Campus Safety and Protection Policies”,

particularly 2.3.3.10 “Key Management and One Cards” by providing a key to Professor Grimes’

private office to Sister Glanz and for allowing Sister Glanz and others to leave the office unlocked

with confidential student records and Professor Grimes’ private documents then available to any

passerby and by refusing to share the Security Office investigation report and findings with

Professor Grimes.

       63.     The University violated Section 2.8 “Grievances and Complaints” of the

Community Policies by failing to engage in fair and meaningful dialogue to address the desecration

of Professor Grimes’ private office and the conversion and destruction of her property, instead



                                                18
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 19 of 29




retaliating against Professor Grimes for lodging her grievance making any proceedings futile as

Professor Grimes could not be assured of an objective process without further harassment, and for

making pretextual excuses for Sister Glanz’s violation of Professor Grimes’ rights.

        64.     The University also violated several provisions of the Personnel Policy including

Section 4.6 “Faculty Rights and Responsibilities” particularly Section 4.6.1.3 “Fair and Respected

Treatment” by failing to treat Professor Grimes “fairly, respectfully, professionally”, failing to

keep her “free from arbitrary and capricious action on the part of the University administration and

faculty” and failing to protect her “against discrimination that is illegal or unconstitutional”.

        65.     The University violated Section 4.10 “Faculty Grievances” by failing to abide by

the Grievance Procedures and/or making the process futile given that the representatives of

Immaculata who engaged in the misconduct control or have undue influence over the process.

        66.     Immaculata has breached The Faculty Contract with Professor Grimes by multiple

violations of the Policy Manual, including without limitation the Personnel Policy and the

Community Policies and failing to abide by its terms and the University Policies incorporated

therein and to which the parties were also bound.

        67.     Immaculata has subjected Professor Grimes to discrimination on the basis of her

age and gender in violation of ADEA, Title VII, and Title IX by continuously treating her less

favorably than younger and/or male faculty members.

        68.     Immaculata has created and continues to subject Professor Grimes to a hostile work

environment with an escalating pattern of discrimination, harassment, bullying and retaliation.

        69.     Immaculata has disparaged Professor Grimes in front of other members of its

faculty and staff.




                                                  19
                 Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 20 of 29




           70.     Immaculata has incinerated, given away, or otherwise disposed of several of

Professor Grimes personal items and is liable for the conversion of such items.

           71.     As a consequence of Immaculata’s wrongful and discriminatory treatment of

Professor Grimes, Professor Grimes has suffered and continues to suffer substantial harm,

including but not limited to reputational harm as well as grave physical and mental health issues,

including suffering from posttraumatic stress syndrome directly caused by the University’s

wrongful desecration of her office and theft and destruction of her personal property, the retaliation

against her for raising issues of disparate treatment and the ensuing failure to address the severe

harm.

                                               COUNT I
                                           Breach of Contract

           72.     Plaintiff Professor Grimes hereby incorporates by reference all allegations in all

previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

           73.     The Faculty Contract and incorporated University policies and procedures,

including without limitation the Policy Manual and the Personnel Policy and Community Policies

included therein between Professor Grimes and Immaculata pertaining to the terms of her

employment.

           74.     Professor Grimes has fulfilled all of her obligations under the contract between the

parties.

           75.     As detailed above, Immaculata breached the Faculty Contract and incorporated

Policy Manual in numerous material ways including but not limited to:

                   a.     failing to act in good faith;

                   b.     forcing Professor Grimes to share her private office with other faculty

                          members;

                                                     20
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 21 of 29




               c.     entering her private office without notice for the purpose of destroying or

                      taking her property;

               d.     incinerating, giving away, or otherwise disposing of Professor Grimes’

                      personal belongings, intellectual property, artwork, materials for teaching

                      her classes;

               e.     failing to create an inventory of items taken from Professor Grimes’ office;

               f.     denying Professor Grimes a full and fair investigation of the ransacking of

                      her office;

               g.     failing to compensate her fairly compared to male and/or younger faculty

                      including without limitation failing to compensate her for work she

                      performed because the Department Chair and the Art Program Director

                      failed to perform their responsibilities;

               h.     failing to store her property in a safe manner after removing it from her

                      office;

               i.     engaging in discriminatory, harassing and bullying behavior towards

                      Professor Grimes; and,

               j.     spreading disparaging statements, and false allegations among the

                      employees of Immaculata and other third parties.

       76.     Immaculata also breached the express and implied terms of Professor Grimes’

employment.

       77.     Immaculata’s actions constituted breaches of its implied duty of good faith and fair

dealing.




                                                21
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 22 of 29




       78.        Professor Grimes has suffered substantial damages as a direct result of

Immaculata’s breach of contract and its implied duties of good faith and fair dealing, including,

without limitation, compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees and costs.

                                       COUNT II
  For Age Discrimination in Violation of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29
                                  U.S.C. § 621, et seq.

       79.        Plaintiff Professor Grimes hereby incorporates by reference all allegations in all

previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

       80.        Professor Grimes is over forty years of age and is an individual within the class

protected by the ADEA.

       81.        In discriminating against and harassing Professor Grimes because of her age, and

retaliating against Professor Grimes for asserting her rights, Immaculata violated the ADEA.

       82.        Immaculata engaged in deliberate and intentional discrimination and harassment

against Professor Grimes based on her age. The University treated her less favorably than younger

faculty by paying her less compensation than younger, less experienced faculty, denying her a

dedicated office for her exclusive use, failing to provide her with the tools needed for teaching

including a working laptop, destroying her office while other younger faculty had offices that were

overcrowded and less safe, and allowing younger faculty to work remotely while chastising

Professor Grimes for not spending more time on campus.

       83.        Moreover, the University retaliated against Professor Grimes for lodging

complaints about discrimination and harassment by subjecting her to an increased amount of

unwarranted reprimands and humiliating her in front of other staff members.

       84.        Immaculata intentionally subjected Professor Grimes to a hostile work environment

due to her age.



                                                  22
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 23 of 29




       85.        As a direct result of Immaculata’s unlawful employment practices, Professor

Grimes has suffered from severe emotional and physiological distress.

       86.        Immaculata’s conduct was outrageous, malicious, wanton, willful, and showed

reckless indifference to the interest of Professor Grimes.

       87.        Professor Grimes has suffered substantial damages as a direct result of

Immaculata’s age discrimination, including, without limitation, compensatory damages, attorneys’

fees and costs.

                                         COUNT III
       For Sex Discrimination in Violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42
                                     U.S.C. § 2000e et seq.
       88.        Plaintiff Professor Grimes hereby incorporates by reference all allegations in all

previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

       89.        Professor Grimes is a female individual within the class protected by Title VII.

       90.        Immaculata engaged in unlawful employment practices, in violation of Title VII by

discriminating against Professor Grimes on the basis of sex. This discrimination included, among

other things, paying Professor Grimes lower compensation than male tenured faculty, including

some with less experience and fewer contributions to the University; forcing Professor Grimes to

share her office with others while male faculty were not required to do so; interfering with her

personal belongings, by trashing, destroying, discarding and giving them away on the pretext of

addressing a “hazard” while allowing male faculty to maintain offices that were far more crowded

and hazardous; failing to provide Professor Grimes with a working laptop needed to teach her

course while male faculty were provided with laptops and other equipment needed for their

teaching; refusing to allow Professor Grimes to use the on campus room for overnight stay without

cost when she remained after hours for University business while permitting male faculty to do so;

reprimanding Professor Grimes for not spending more time on campus even though some of her

                                                  23
             Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 24 of 29




courses were designed to be done on site at art locations while allowing male professors to work

entirely remotely; and celebrating and hosting events to honor male faculty book publications

while failing to do so when Professor Grimes published a book.

       91.        Immaculata intentionally and willfully discriminated against and harassed

Professor Grimes because of her sex and retaliated against Professor Grimes because of her

complaints about such discrimination.

       92.        Immaculata intentionally subjected Professor Grimes to a hostile work environment

due to her sex.

       93.        Upon information and belief, Immaculata’s facially neutral practices, policies,

and/or customs had a disparate impact upon female employees at Immaculata in violation of Title

VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. For example, upon information and belief, Immaculata did

not follow its own practices, policies and/or customs in handling the removal of items from

Professor Grimes office and did not subject any male faculty members to the same intrusive

cleaning.

       94.        As a direct result of Immaculata’s unlawful employment practices, Professor

Grimes has suffered severe emotional and psychological distress as well as loss of self-esteem.

       95.        Immaculata’s conduct was outrageous, malicious, wanton, willful, and showed

reckless indifference to the interests of Professor Grimes.

       96.        Professor Grimes has suffered substantial damages as a direct result of

Immaculata’s gender discrimination, including, without limitation, compensatory damages,

punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs.




                                                 24
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 25 of 29




                                       COUNT IV
        Sex Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of Title IX of the Education
                      Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. § 1681, et seq.

       97.      Plaintiff Professor Grimes hereby incorporates by reference all allegations in all

previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

       98.      Immaculata, a federally financed educational institution, knowingly engaged in

deliberate and intentional discrimination and harassment against Professor Grimes based on her

sex and retaliated against Professor Grimes for raising complaints regarding the discrimination she

experienced in violation of Title IX and its implementing regulations.

       99.      Under Title IX and its implementing regulations, “[n]o person in the United States

shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be

subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial

assistance.” 20 U.S.C. § 1681(a).

       100.     Retaliation for reporting discrimination based on sex is also considered sex-based

discrimination under Title IX. Jackson v. Birmingham Bd. of Educ., 544 U.S. 167, 174 (2005).

       101.     As a direct result of Immaculata’s unlawful employment practices, Professor

Grimes has suffered severe emotional and psychological distress as well as loss of self-esteem.

       102.     Immaculata’s conduct was outrageous, malicious, wanton, willful, and showed

reckless indifference to the interests of Professor Grimes.

       103.     Immaculata’s willful violations of Title IX warrant an award of compensatory

damages, attorneys’ fees and costs, and interest as well as injunctive relief.

                                          COUNT V
             Unequal Pay in Violation of the Equal Pay Act, 29 U.S.C. § 206, et seq.

       104.     Plaintiff Professor Grimes hereby incorporates by reference all allegations in all

previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

                                                 25
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 26 of 29




       105.     Throughout her career at Immaculata, Professor Grimes has consistently upheld a

praiseworthy track record, going above and beyond her mandated job duties, all in pursuit of the

Art Department’s success.

       106.     As mentioned above, despite the University stripping Professor Grimes of her

administrative title, she is still consistently burdened with tasks that are not within her official

responsibilities. The same is not expected from the male counterparts having substantially equal

job titles, responsibilities and skills working under similar conditions.

       107.     Professor Grimes’ male co-workers, however, were paid more under these

circumstances, in violation of the Equal Pay Act. Furthermore, her male co-workers enjoyed extra

privileges, such as the freedom to stay overnight at the University without being charged the $40

fee that Professor Grimes was required to pay and being excused from staff meetings.

       108.     Immaculata’s willful violations of the Equal Pay Act warrant an award of

compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees and costs, and interest as well as injunctive relief.

                                        COUNT VI
         Violations of the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. § 951, et seq.

       109.     Plaintiff Professor Grimes hereby incorporates by reference all allegations in all

previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

       110.     Immaculata intentionally discriminated against, harassed and retaliated against

Professor Grimes on the basis of her age and gender.

       111.     Immaculata intentionally subjected Professor Grimes to a hostile work environment

due to her age and gender.

       112.     In discriminating and harassing Professor Grimes because of her age and gender

and in retaliating against Professor Grimes for her complaints of such discriminatory treatment,

Immaculata violated the PHRA.

                                                 26
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 27 of 29




       113.     As the direct result of the aforesaid unlawful employment practices engaged in by

Immaculata, Professor Grimes has sustained actual loss, severe emotion and psychological

distress, loss of self-esteem and has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs.

       114.     Immaculata’s conduct was outrageous, malicious, wanton, willful, and showed

reckless indifference to the interests of Professor Grimes.

       115.     Immaculata’s willful violations of the PHRA warrant an award of actual and

compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees and costs, and interest.

                                           COUNT VII
                                           Conversion
       116.     Plaintiff Professor Grimes repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of

all previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

       117.     As set forth in more detail above, Immaculata wrongfully entered Professor Grimes

private office and locked file cabinets and removed, destroyed, incinerated or offered to others

several of Professor Grimes’ personal belongings including records reflecting the value of the

items that Immaculate that were taken or otherwise interfered with.

       118.     Professor Grimes had a possessory interest in the items stored in her office.

       119.     Immaculata intentionally interfered with Professor Grimes’ possession of these

items without authorization.

       120.     Immaculata’s acts are the cause of Professor Grimes’ loss of property.

       121.     Immaculata is liable to Professor Grimes for the full fair market value of the

property seized.

       122.     Immaculata’s conduct was outrageous, malicious, wanton, willful, and showed

reckless indifference to the interests of Professor Grimes.




                                                 27
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 28 of 29




       123.     As a result of Immaculata’s wrongful conversion of Professor Grimes’ property,

she has suffered substantial damages including, without limitation, compensatory damages,

punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs.

                                         COUNT VIII
                          Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
       124.     Plaintiff Professor Grimes repeats and incorporates by reference the allegations of

all previous paragraphs as fully as though the same were set forth at length herein.

       125.     As set forth in more detail above, Immaculata has engaged in a pattern of extreme

and outrageous mistreatment towards Professor Grimes by, among other things, intentionally

entering her locked office and incinerating, seizing, destroying and giving away her personal

belongings, threatening severe consequences when she did not respond during the death of a family

member, subjecting her to humiliation in front of other staff members by calling her “a hoarder,”

referring to her belongings and art work as “trash,” openly shunning her in the presence of others,

and failing to acknowledge or celebrate her publications and accomplishment while lavishly

acknowledging and celebrating male faculty.

       126.     Immaculata’s behavior and conduct was extreme, outrageous, shocking, and of

such egregiousness as to be utterly intolerable in any civilized society, and was specifically

directed at Professor Grimes with malice, intending to cause her serious psychological and

emotional harm, damage and distress, pain and suffering, and which did indeed directly cause such

severe emotional harm, psychological distress and damage.

       127.     As a result of Immaculata’s intentional infliction of emotional distress, Professor

Grimes has suffered substantial damages including, without limitation, compensatory damages,

punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs.




                                                28
              Case 2:23-cv-03357 Document 1 Filed 08/28/23 Page 29 of 29




                                          PRAYER FOR RELIEF

          WHEREFORE, Professor Grimes respectfully requests that this Honorable Court:

      i.     enter judgment in Plaintiff’s favor and against Defendant on all claims asserted

             against it above in an amount in excess of $75,000 for actual, compensatory and

             statutory damages;

     ii.     order appropriate equitable relief enjoining Defendant from retaliating against

             Plaintiff;

    iii.     order Defendant to compensate Plaintiff for all items from her office that were taken,

             damaged, destroyed, given away, or otherwise interfered with;

    iv.      order Defendant to compensate Plaintiff for physical injury and emotional distress

             suffered as a result of their unlawful actions;

     v.      order Defendant to pay Plaintiff punitive damages;

    vi.      order Defendant to pay Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs; and,

   vii.      grant such other and further relied as this court deems necessary, just and appropriate.



Dated: August 28, 2023                          Respectfully submitted,


                                                GRIESING MAZZEO LAW, LLC

                                        By:     /s/ Francine Friedman Griesing
                                                Francine Friedman Griesing, Esq.
                                                Jessica L. Tarapchak, Esq.
                                                Identification Nos. 48982, 333122
                                                1880 John F. Kennedy Boulevard, Suite 1800
                                                Philadelphia, PA 19103
                                                PH: (215) 618-3720
                                                F: (215) 814-9049
                                                fgriesing@griesinglaw.com
                                                jtarapchak@griesinglaw.com
                                                Attorneys for Plaintiff Diane Grimes

                                                   29
