Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/67502637/1/de-piero-v-pennsylvania-state-university/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in De Piero v. PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY (E.D. Pa., 2:23-cv-02281) – CourtListener.com

Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB       Document 1       Filed 06/14/23   Page 1 of 36


                 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
               EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


 ZACK K. DE PIERO,
                                            Civil Case No. _______________
               PLAINTIFF,

        VS.                                 DATE: June 15, 2023

 PENNSYLVANIA STATE
 UNIVERSITY, NEELI BENDAPUDI,
 MARGO DELLICARPINI, ABRAHAM
 AMORÓS, DANIEL J. DELLIGATTI,
 DAVID M. KLEPPINGER, DANIEL A.
 ONORATO, TERRENCE M. PEGULA,
 STANLEY I. RAPP, EDWARD “TED”
 B. BROWN, III, ALVIN F. DE LEVIE,
 BARRY J. FENCHAK, CHRISTA A.
 HASENKOPF, ANTHONY P.
 LUBRANO, JOSEPH “JAY” V.
 PATERNO, ALICE W. POPE,
 BRANDON D. SHORT, STEVEN B.
 WAGMAN, RANDALL E. BLACK,
 DONALD W. CAIRNS, VALERIE L.
 DETWILER, LYNN A. DIETRICH, M.
 ABRAHAM HARPSTER, CHRIS R.
 HOFFMAN, MARK H. DAMBLY,
 ROBERT E. FENZA, NAREN K.
 GURSAHANEY, WALTER C.
 RAKOWICH, MARY LEE
 SCHNEIDER, RICHARD S. SOKOLOV,
 TRACY A. RIEGEL, JULIE ANNA
 POTTS, MATTHEW W. SCHUYLER,
 In their official capacities, and DAMIAN
 FERNANDEZ, MARGO
 DELLICARPINI, LILIANA NAYDAN,
 CARMEN BORGES, ALINA WONG,
 LISA MARRANZINI, FRIEDERIKE
 BAER, and ANEESAH SMITH, in their
 official and individual capacities,

               DEFENDANTS.




                                    1
          Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1        Filed 06/14/23      Page 2 of 36




                               COMPLAINT AND JURY DEMAND

          Plaintiff Zack K. De Piero sues Defendants for the violation of his civil rights, First

Amendment rights, and rights under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act due to Defendants’

discrimination against him on the basis of race and retaliation against him for exercising his right

to speak freely on matters of public concern, namely by condemning Defendants’ race-based

dogma and discrimination.

  I.      THE PARTIES

          1.      Zack K. De Piero is a resident of Bucks County, Pennsylvania. At all times

relevant to this Complaint, De Piero was an Assistant Teaching Professor of English and

Composition with an appointment in the English Department and Writing Program of Penn State

Abington.

          2.     Pennsylvania State University (“Penn State”) is a public institution of higher

education created by the Pennsylvania Legislature in 1855 and operates under a “charter” that

consists of various Legislative Acts and decrees of the Court of Common Pleas of Centre

County, and is governed by a Board of Trustees. Penn State maintains campuses throughout the

state of Pennsylvania, including Plaintiff’s former employer at Penn State Abington in

Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. Penn State receives federal funding.

       A. The “Trustee Defendants”

          3.     The following Defendants are the Trustees of Pennsylvania State University and

are being sued in their official capacities only and are referred to in this Complaint collectively

as the “Trustee Defendants.”

          4.     The Trustee Defendants as constituent members of the Board of Trustees have

ultimate responsibility for the supervision of Defendant Penn State and its administrators,



                                                    2
         Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB          Document 1       Filed 06/14/23     Page 3 of 36




faculty, and staff; the Trustee Defendants have ultimate responsibility to ensure that Penn State’s

rules, policies, and procedures are faithfully followed and that Penn State abides by the law.

         5.      Abraham Amorós is Director of Operations, PA Municipal League and a Trustee

of Penn State.

         6.      Daniel J. Delligatti is President and Owner/Operator, M & J Management and a

Trustee of Penn State.

         7.      David M. Kleppinger is Chairman Emeritus of McNees Wallace and Nurick LLC,

and Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees of Penn State.

         8.      Daniel A. Onorato is Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate Affairs

Officer, Highmark Health and a Trustee of Penn State.

         9.      Terrence M. Pegula is CEO, Buffalo Bills, Buffalo Sabres, and JKLM Energy,

LLC and a Trustee of Penn State.

         10.     Stanley I. Rapp is Senior Partner, Greenlee Partners, LLC and Trustee of Penn

State.

         11.     Edward “Ted” B. Brown, III is President and CEO, KETCH Consulting, Inc. and

Trustee of Penn.

         12.     Alvin F. de Levie is an Attorney and Founder, Law Offices of Alvin F. de Levie

and Trustee of Penn State.

         13.     Barry J. Fenchak is a Registered Investment Advisor and Securities Principal and

Trustee of Penn State.

         14.     Christa A. Hasenkopf is Director, Air Quality Life Index (AQLI) and Air Quality

Programs, Energy Policy Institute, University of Chicago and Trustee of Penn State.




                                                 3
         Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB          Document 1       Filed 06/14/23     Page 4 of 36




         15.    Anthony P. Lubrano is President, A.P. Lubrano and Company, Inc. and Trustee of

Penn State.

         16.    Joseph “Jay” V. Paterno, Jr. is president President, Blue Line 409 and Trustee of

Penn State.

         17.    Alice W. Pope is a Retired Associate Professor, Department of Psychology, St.

John’s University and Trustee of Penn State.

         18.    Brandon D. Short is the Executive Director and Portfolio Manager, PGIM Real

Estate and Trustee of Penn State.

         19.    Steven B. Wagman is a National Healthcare Business Leader, Siemens Industry,

Inc. – Smart Infrastructure Division and Trustee of Penn State.

         20.    Randall “Randy” E. Black is CEO and President, First Citizens Community Bank

and Trustee of Penn State.

         21.    Donald W. Cairns is the Owner/Operator, Cairns Family Farm and Trustee of

Penn State.

         22.    Valerie L. Detwiler is Senior Vice President, Senior Commercial Banker,

Reliance Bank and Trustee of Penn State.

         23.    Lynn A. Dietrich is a Retired Professional Engineer (PE) and Trustee of Penn

State.

         24.    M. Abraham Harpster is Co-Owner, Evergreen Farms, Inc. and Trustee of Penn

State.

         25.    Chris R. Hoffman is President, Pennsylvania Farm Bureau and Trustee of Penn

State; on information and belief Chris R. Hoffman resides in the Commonwealth of

Pennsylvania.



                                                 4
         Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23     Page 5 of 36




         26.     Mark H. Dambly is President, Pennrose Properties, LLC and Trustee of Penn

State.

         27.     Robert E. Fenza is a Retired Chief Operating Officer, Liberty Property Trust and

Trustee of Penn State.

         28.     Naren K. Gursahaney is the Retired President, CEO and Director, ADT

Corporation and Trustee of Penn State.

         29.     Walter C. Rakowich is the Retired Chief Executive Officer, Prologis and Trustee

of Penn State.

         30.     Mary Lee Schneider is the Former President and CEO, SG360° and Trustee of

Penn State.

         31.     Richard S. Sokolov is the Vice Chairman, Simon Property Group and Trustee of

Penn State.

         32.     Tracy A. Riegel is the Former Project Manager, The Vanguard Group and Trustee

of Penn State.

         33.     Julie Anna Potts is President and CEO, North American Meat Institute and

Trustee of Penn State.

         34.     Matthew W. Schuyler is the Chief Brand Officer, Hilton and Chair of the Board

of Trustees.

   B. The “Individual Defendants”

         35.     The following individual Defendants are sued in their individual and official

capacities:

         36.     Defendant Margo DelliCarpini is the Chancellor of Penn State Abington.




                                                  5
         Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB         Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 6 of 36




         37.   Defendant Damian Fernandez served as Chancellor of Penn State Abington and

held ultimate authority for the supervision of all Penn State Abington administrators, faculty, and

staff.

         38.   Defendant Liliana Naydan at all relevant times was employed by Penn State as an

Associate Professor of English and acted as Plaintiff’s Direct Supervisor and Chair of the

English Department and Writing Program Coordinator.

         39.   Defendant Carmen Borges at all relevant times was employed by Penn State as

Associate Director of the Affirmative Action Office (“AAO”).

         40.   Defendant Alina Wong at all relevant times was employed by Penn State as

Assistant Vice Provost for Educational Equity.

         41.   Defendant Lisa Marranzini at all relevant times was employed by Penn State as a

Human Resources Representative.

         42.   Defendant Friederike Baer at all relevant times was employed by Penn State as

the Division Head of Arts & Humanities at Penn State Abington.

         43.   Defendant Aneesah Smith at all relevant times was employed by Penn State as the

Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Penn State Abington.

         44.   Neeli Bendapudi is the acting President of The Pennsylvania State University.

 II.     JURISDICTION AND VENUE

         45.   This action arises under the laws of the United States, under the First and

Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution and 42 USC §§ 1983 and 1988, Title

VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §2000d et seq., Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of

1964, 42 U.S.C. §2000-e et seq., and 42 USC § 1981.

         46.   This Court has original jurisdiction over these claims pursuant to 28 U.S.C.

§§ 1331 and 1343. This Court has authority to award the requested damages pursuant to 28 USC
                                                 6
           Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB          Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 7 of 36




§ 1343; the requested declaratory relief pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2201-02; and costs and

attorneys’ fees under 42 U.S.C. § 1988.

          47.     This Court has supplemental jurisdiction over all state law claims pursuant to 28

USC § 1367(a).

          48.     Venue is proper in this district pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b) because the

Defendants are residents of the State in which this district is located and the acts described in this

Complaint occurred in this district.

III.      FACTS

       A. De Piero’s Qualifications as an English Teacher, Writing Professor, and Education
          Researcher

          49.     De Piero is 40 years old and his race is “white.”

          50.     De Piero is the son of a first-generation immigrant to the United States from Italy,

Enzo De Piero, whose fellow immigrants were actively discriminated against upon their arrival

on the shores of this country as both “dark” skinned Italians and as Catholics. This instilled in De

Piero a life-long commitment to treating all Americans equally on the basis of race, sex, national

origin, and other ascribed characteristics. De Piero firmly believes that individuals should be

judged by the content of their character, not by the color of their skin.

          51.     De Piero graduated from James Madison University in 2005.

          52.     Since that time, De Piero has exclusively worked in the field of education, often

serving underprivileged communities, many of them disproportionally made up of historically

disadvantaged minorities.

          53.     From 2005 through 2008, De Piero worked his way through graduate school as a

substitute teacher, while pursuing his Masters in Education at Temple University in Philadelphia,

Pennsylvania, where he eventually earned his teaching certification.


                                                   7
        Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB          Document 1       Filed 06/14/23        Page 8 of 36




       54.     In December 2009, De Piero earned a Masters in Education along with

Instructional I Certification for teaching secondary English (grades 7-12).

       55.     From 2009 – 2011, De Piero taught English and Language Arts in the

Philadelphia School District and dedicated himself to teaching in inner-city schools labeled “high

risk” and “persistently dangerous.”

       56.     In December 2012, De Piero enrolled in the Language, Literacy, and Composition

Studies program of the University of California, Santa Barbara to pursue a Ph.D. in Education.

De Piero enrolled in a specialized track, “Teaching and Learning.”

       57.     During his Ph.D. studies, De Piero worked as a Writing Center Director at

Antioch University Santa Barbara, while also working as a Teaching Assistant at UC Santa

Barbara in the Communication Department and Writing Program.

       58.     De Piero successfully completed his dissertation, titled “Reading Like a Writer,

Teaching Like a Reader: Guiding Students Towards ‘Good Reading’ in First-Year Composition”

and UC Santa Barbara conferred his Ph.D. in August 2017.

       59.     Starting in 2018, De Piero began a full-time position at Penn State University -

Abington College, in Abington, Pennsylvania.

       60.     With a “4-4” teaching load, meaning teaching four courses each semester, De

Piero’s courseload was heavy for a university professor. Nonetheless, De Piero carved out time

to publish peer-reviewed scholarship in two academic journals: Higher Education Research and

Development (December 2018) and Journal of College Literacy and Learning (February 2019).

This went above and beyond Penn State Abington’s expectations for professors who teach

required first- and second-year writing courses.




                                                   8
        Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB          Document 1        Filed 06/14/23     Page 9 of 36




       61.     As an active scholar, De Piero also presented his research at conferences while

working at Penn State. He shared his research at the Conference on College Composition and

Communication (CCCC) and American Education Research Association (AERA).

   B. Penn State Targets De Piero on Account of his Race

       62.     Penn State hired De Piero as a non-tenure-track Assistant Teaching Professor of

English and Composition with an appointment in the English Department and Writing Program

of Penn State Abington in August 2018 for a $52,008 salary.

       63.     Penn State required De Piero to teach four courses a semester, primarily

consisting of the required first-year writing course, ENGL 015 Rhetoric and Composition, and

second-year writing courses like ENGL 202A Writing for the Social Sciences and ENGL 202D

Business Writing.

       64.     At the conclusion of each academic year, De Piero volunteered to teach writing

courses during in the summer session, many of which were geared toward underrepresented

minorities, and he did so even after the spring semester of 2019, two weeks after the birth of his

daughter.

       65.     Out of the twenty undergraduate Penn State locations across Pennsylvania, Penn

State Abington describes itself on its website as “the most diverse campus within the University

and the only majority minority campus.”

       66.     At all relevant times, Defendant Naydan was directly responsible for supervising

De Piero as Chair of the English Department and Writing Program.

       67.     The English Department and Writing Program of Penn State Abington were

housed under the Division of Arts and Humanities, whose division head was Defendant Baer.

       68.     Almost immediately upon beginning his employment at Penn State, Defendants

pressured De Piero to conform to their political viewpoints.
                                                 9
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1        Filed 06/14/23      Page 10 of 36




       69.     In or around September 2018, at the end of a monthly professional development

session and approximately one month into De Piero’s appointment at Penn State, Defendant

Naydan displayed an app on her cell phone to the participants of the meeting. The app revealed

all of her phone contacts’ registered political affiliation. Naydan then loudly expressed concern

and disbelief that Plaintiff was not a registered Democrat. (In fact, he was a registered

independent.) Exposing De Piero’s political affiliation (or lack thereof) in the presence of several

other faculty members made De Piero feel extremely uncomfortable.

       70.     The Individual Defendants quickly began to peddle and enforce a race-based

ideology in addition to imposing other forms of political orthodoxy and race-based dogma.

       71.     One of the chief race-based principles that Defendants sought to enforce

concerned student performance. Defendants instructed De Piero that outcomes alone —

regardless of the legitimacy of methods of evaluation, mastery of subject matter, or intentions —

demonstrate whether a faculty member’s actions are racist or not. Defendants call this “social

justice” and “antiracism.” At the core of their ideology, Defendants discriminate twofold on the

basis of race. First, Defendants’ bigotry manifests itself in low expectations. They do not expect

black or Hispanic students to achieve the same mastery of academic subject matters as other

students and therefore insist that deficient performance must be excused. Accurate assessment of

abilities, if it happens to show disparate performance among different racial groups, is therefore

condemned as “racist.” econd, Defendants’ bigotry manifests itself in overt discrimination

against students and faculty who do apply consistent standards, especially white faculty.

       72.     Defendant Naydan expressed this corrosive race-based ideology on March 29,

2019, when she emailed Plaintiff and two other white faculty members that “racist structures are

quite real in assessment and elsewhere regardless of the good intentions that teachers and



                                                 10
        Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1        Filed 06/14/23       Page 11 of 36




scholars bring to the set-up of those structures. For me, the racism is in the results if the results

draw a color line.”

        73.    In other words, if consistent standards yielded disparate outcomes on the basis of

race, no matter how objective the standards, Defendant Naydan and all Defendants counted this

as evidence of “racism,” which Defendant Naydan attributed to De Piero as the embodiment of

“white supremacy.”

        74.    Given Naydan’s supervisory relationship to Plaintiff and the fact that Penn State

Abington is a “majority minority” campus, this philosophy put immense strain on De Piero.

Penn State pressured De Piero to ensure consistent grades for students across “color line[s],”

otherwise his actions would demonstrate racism and he would be condemned as a racist.

        75.    The logic of Defendants’ demands required that De Piero also penalize students

academically on the basis of race. If, for example, students from East Asia or the Indian

subcontinent excelled over other minority groups (who often had the same, if not lighter skin

color), De Piero was asked to penalize them in order to equalize outcomes on the basis of race.

        76.    De Piero rejects this race-based and racist approach to teaching and evaluation.

De Piero had developed an assessment methodology designed to foreground the writing process

so that all students, regardless of race, can achieve success if they put in timely work. In De

Piero’s mind, such an approach evens the playing field for all students, so that everybody can be

successful in the writing classroom, irrespective of their educational background or racial

identity.

        77.    Following the tragic murder of George Floyd in May 2020, the Defendants’

“antiracist” activism reached a new fever pitch. Then-chancellor of Penn State Abington Damian




                                                  11
        Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23       Page 12 of 36




Fernandez called all faculty and staff to attend a “Conversation on Racial Climate” about “the

current racial justice movement, the tragic death of George Floyd and others.”

        78.     The conference took place on June 5, 2020 over Zoom. This presentation was led

by the Assistant Vice Provost for Educational Equity, Defendant Alina Wong, whom Fernandez

praised as a “caring advocate for social justice.”

        79.     Defendant Wong instructed the faculty as a captive audience on the subject of

“systemic racism,” which at Penn State means a straightforward, facile association of police

brutality with white supremacy and white privilege.

        80.     Wong expressed her intention to cause Penn State’s white faculty to “feel the

pain” that George Floyd endured. Apparently, at Penn State, the only acceptable method to right

historical wrongs is to visit additional “pain” on other racial groups.

        81.     Wong declared that “black men and women” as well as “the black trans and queer

folks [are] killed by police supremacy, by white supremacy.” Wong identified white faculty as

somehow privileged because they could “breathe” while George Floyd could not.

        82.     Wong identified “those of us with privileged racial identities” who “need to sit in

it longer,” and she led the faculty in a breathing exercise in which she instructed the “White and

non-Black people of color to hold it just a little longer — to feel the pain.” De Piero and other

faculty were thus singled out, caused to experience discomfort, and feel “the pain” on the basis

of their skin color.

        83.     As an officer of Penn State, Defendant Wong encouraged illegal activity such as

looting, stating, “There’s been a disruption, I think, in all of our lives. And what I’m interested in

doing is staying in the disruption—and actually, disrupting more—because I think that’s what we




                                                 12
          Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB          Document 1       Filed 06/14/23    Page 13 of 36




haven’t seen and that’s what we haven’t done […] What we call looting, I think of as just getting

what you’re due.”

          84.      The following morning, on June 16, 2020, Assistant Teaching Professor of

English, Charles Archer, hectored De Piero about “history and white male privilege.” Archer

asserted that resistance to wearing masks “is also more likely to be led by white males and in

classrooms taught by women and people of color.”

          85.      Later that week, an example of Penn State’s race-based harassment was evident in

an email from Defendant Aneesah Smith. Defendant Smith is the Director of Diversity, Equity,

and Inclusion at Penn State Abington, and she holds herself out as “Queer, Christian, Cisgender,

woman of color who is OUT and proud in all aspects of her life” with “over 12 years in Social

Justice Advocacy & Activism.” 1

          86.      On June 19, 2020, Defendant Smith sent an email to all Penn State Abington

faculty, staff, and administrators, instructing all Penn State employees that “Black and Brown

people are calling on white people” to “stop being afraid of your own internalized white

supremacy.” Smith instructed white employees to “Stop talking” while simultaneously directing

members of the white Penn State community to “hold other white people accountable.” Smith

promoted a hostile environment on the basis of race by instructing Penn State’s white employees

to “feel terrible.”

          87.      In an August 3, 2020 email to all writing faculty, Defendant Naydan promoted

race-based “Black Linguistic Justice,” issuing directives to “assure that black students can find

success in our classrooms” and to “assure that all students see that white supremacy manifests

itself in language and in writing pedagogy.”



1
    See https://www.aneesahsmith.com/

                                                  13
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB            Document 1       Filed 06/14/23       Page 14 of 36




       88.     Naydan is and was the administrative supervisor of Penn State Abington’s

Writing Program. Naydan instructed her writing faculty to teach that white supremacy exists in

language itself, and therefore, that the English language itself is “racist” and, furthermore, that

white supremacy exists in the teaching of writing of English, and therefore writing teachers are

themselves racist white supremacists.

       89.     In an email dated August 12, 2020, Defendant Naydan endorsed a Penn State

colleague’s view that “reverse racism isn’t racism.” In doing so, Naydan expressed her view that

racism practiced against white faculty and students is legitimate.

       90.     This racially hostile environment intensified over the course of 2020.

       91.     On or around October 2020, Defendant Naydan and Assistant Teaching Professor

of Applied Linguistics Grace Lee-Amuzie led a professional development meeting on

“multiculturalism.”

       92.     Penn State held monthly professional development meetings for the Writing

Program, which all full-time writing faculty are expected to attend. Similarly, Penn State holds

monthly professional development meetings for the English Department, which all full-time

English faculty are expected to attend.

       93.     Defendant Naydan and Lee-Amuzie presented supposed examples of “racist”

comments faculty supposedly make to students. All of the offending instructors in their examples

were white. Supposedly racist comments made by white professors included asking students

where they are from or inquiring about their native languages. Naydan’s and Lee-Amuzie’s

examples presented white instructors as ignorant of and insensitive to students’ multicultural

backgrounds merely by virtue of expressing interest in their backgrounds.




                                                 14
        Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB               Document 1          Filed 06/14/23    Page 15 of 36




        94.      Empirical data actually demonstrates that over 80% of Latinos and a nearly equal

percentage of African Americans respond, “That is not offensive” when presented with the

questions, “Where are you from.” 2 But at Penn State, “anti-racism” means punishing white

people for asking questions that most Americans consider part of everyday human decency in

conversation.

        95.      On or around August 2020, Defendant Naydan emailed the writing faculty with a

monthly “training” agenda for the 2020-2021 academic year. A presentation for an October

meeting was captioned, “White Teachers are a Problem.”

        96.      Penn State full-time writing lecturer Stephen Cohen sent an email on October 6,

2020 to all writing program faculty, telling them to watch a video instructing them that “White

Teachers Are a Problem.” Cohen and Defendant Naydan called for faculty to view the video as

some bizarre training exercise.

        97.      Defendants again harassed De Piero on October 27, 2020 when Cohen sent a

follow-up email to the writing program faculty reminding everyone to watch the video, “White

Teachers Are a Problem,” which targeted instructors on the basis of race.

        98.      The featured speaker of the supposedly instructional video, Asao Inoue, had very

recently made disparaging public comments “About White Language Supremacy.” Inoue’s

racially disparaging commentary included:

          White people can perpetuate White supremacy by being present. You can
          perpetuate White language supremacy through the presence of your bodies in
          places like this. That feels unfair to say so bluntly, doesn’t it? You perpetuate
          White language supremacy in your classrooms because you are White and stand
          in front of students […] Your body perpetuates racism.




2
 See https://freeblackthought.substack.com/p/the-best-microaggression-training;
https://freeblackthought.substack.com/p/the-best-microaggression-training.

                                                       15
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB              Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 16 of 36




           99.    In the “White Teachers are a Problem” video imposed on Penn State faculty,

Inoue associated “white supremacy” with all the evils of the world. In targeting those whom he

called his “white colleagues,” Inoue says “it fucking sucks and hurts and is hard to be the

problem.” Inoue emphasized the importance of making others “feel uncomfortable” on the basis

of race.

           100.   At one point in the so-called “training” video, an interviewer asks, “I see the

violence in the street. I’m correcting grammar. I don’t see how they’re connected.” Inoue

responds that “white English . . . kills people of color, right? […] The fight against racism and

white supremacy is not an either/or thing. The iron cage of racism that I was trying to explain in

the talk and white supremacy have many interconnected bars.”

           101.   At Penn State, this means that the mere presence of a person with “white” skin

speaking or teaching English to students is somehow “White language supremacy in your

classroom.” At Penn State, the race-based dogma meant that teachers like De Piero were “racist”

simply by virtue of teaching while “white.”

           102.   The Individual Defendants, including but not limited to Naydan, condemned

faculty in general and De Piero specifically for teaching while “white.” At Penn State,

condemning faculty on the basis of race counts as demonstrating a commitment to “antiracism.”

           103.   On October 22, 2020, the Interim Division Head for Arts and Humanities, David

Ruth – De Piero’s interim division supervisor at the time – emailed all faculty to attend an

upcoming “Arts and Humanities as Activism event” that endorsed race-based ideologies that

targeted De Piero and others on the basis of the color of their skin. The presentation was led by

Dr. Aja Martinez.




                                                   16
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 17 of 36




       104.    This harassment continued on November 7, 2020, when Lee-Amuzie and

Defendant Naydan imposed the “presentation and dialogue about critical race theory and

antiracism” by Dr. Aja Martinez on the writing faculty. Martinez also hawked race-based

theories condemning white people for no other reason than they spoke or were simply present

while being “white.”

       105.    Defendant Naydan followed up: “I’ve read much of Dr. Martinez’s work, which

has helped me immensely with my thinking about antiracism and writing pedagogy. I imagine

you’ll appreciate her insights as much as I do.”

       106.    And again on November 16, 2020, Defendant Naydan circulated Aja Martinez’s

racist teachings throughout the writing faculty, stating, “In case you missed Aja Martinez’s talk

on counterstory, I’m attaching materials from her talk for you here.”

       107.    This supposed “scholarship” identifies “objective research” as a “narrative of

white privilege,” indicating that any black person dedicated to objective research is somehow

also “racist” and inferior. While true racial imperialists have always advocated that people of

color are incapable of objectivity, at Penn State this racist orthodoxy has now become the rule

under the banner of “antiracism.” The only difference is that Penn State’s bizarre brand of

“antiracism” condemns qualities like “objectivity” as “white supremacy,” and purports to

celebrate people of color for being incapable of objective thought. The common denominator at

Penn State and among all Defendants is the promotion of pejorative stereotypes on the basis of

race, which have created a hostile environment not only for De Piero but for all faculty and

students.

       108.    Martinez’s presentation condemned “race neutrality, equal opportunity,

objectivity, colorblindness, and merit.” This was coupled with further condemnation of “white



                                                   17
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 18 of 36




elites” and “white self-interest,” which traditional standards of scholarship supposedly uphold

based on unbiased neutrality, objective merit, and equal opportunity regardless of race.

       109.    On January 11, 2021, Professor Marissa Nicosia emailed all full-time English

faculty about an “Antiracist pedagogy” meeting the following week. Nicosia stated, “As we’ve

discussed in previous meetings, antiracist pedagogical practices effect all aspects of teaching —

text selection, assignment design, assessment, in-class activities, classroom policies, and

beyond.”

       110.    In her opening remarks for the January 19, 2021 “Antiracism pedagogy” meeting,

Nicosia announced her passionate belief in “antiracism or antiracist pedagogy.” Nicosia

characterized “antiracism” as “a subset of equity pedagogy.”

       111.    Defendant Naydan noted in that meeting, “I’m thinking about grading as an

antiracist act.” By this, Defendant Naydan meant that Defendants, including but not limited to

Defendant Naydan, must apply different grading standards on the basis of race; moreover,

Defendants discouraged grading students equally regardless of race as somehow an overt act of

“racism.”

       112.    Throughout the winter months of 2021 and through spring 2021, Defendant

Naydan as well as Cohen and Lee-Amuzie again recruited the race-ideologue Inoue —

previously presented in the “White Teachers of a Problem” training video — to deliver a “White

Language Supremacy” presentation, in coordination with Penn State’s “antiracist” dogma.

       113.    Meanwhile, Penn State maintained a “Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion” webpage

with a so-called “Antiracism” tab. Here, Penn State further disseminated racist tirades against

white faculty and students on the basis of their race, with articles, books, and presentations such

as:



                                                 18
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB             Document 1        Filed 06/14/23     Page 19 of 36




              •    “Dismantling the white supremacy embedded in our classrooms”

              •    “White Rage: The unspoken truth of our nation’s divide”

              •    “White immunity: Working through the pitfall of privilege discourse”

              •    “White people, enough: A look at power and control.”

              •    “What white colleagues need to understand.”

              •    “White Fragility”

              •    “White Rage”

              •    “Me and White Supremacy”

   C. DePiero Reports Racial Discrimination to his Supervisor and Initiates a PHRC
      Complaint; Penn State Retaliates by Finding Him Guilty of “Bullying”

       114.       On April 15, 2021, De Piero disclosed numerous racially discriminatory incidents

involving Defendant Naydan to Defendant Friederike Baer. Baer asked De Piero whether he had

a problem with Defendant Naydan’s actions.

       115.       De Piero made clear to Defendant Baer that he felt harassed because of his racial

background. Defendant Baer asked De Piero, “That’s a powerful word, so I want to be clear —

that is how you felt?” De Piero confirmed and repeated that Defendants’ racially discriminatory

training meetings for the writing faculty should stop immediately.

       116.       That same month (April 2021), Plaintiff filed a report of the racial harassment at

Penn State with the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission (“PHRC”). Yet the race-based

harassment at Penn State continued.

       117.       In September 2021, De Piero received a “Resources for Reporting Wrongdoing”

to “Report Bias” from the official email account of Penn State president. De Piero filed a

complaint or “Bias Report” with Penn State’s Affirmative Action Office (“AAO”) about the

racially discriminatory incidents dating back to the previous year.


                                                   19
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 20 of 36




       118.    On September 17, 2021, Defendant Borges, the Associate Director of the Penn

State Affirmative Action Office, requested a meeting based on De Piero’s Bias Report.

       119.    A few days after Borges’s initial email to De Piero, on September 20, 2021,

Defendant Naydan emailed all writing faculty demanded yet another “White Privilege” training

meeting scheduled for October 18, 2021. Plaintiff realized the discriminatory content in training

materials would likely continue indefinitely, despite his request to Defendant Baer that Penn

State stop harassing him and similarly situated faculty on the basis of race.

       120.    When De Piero met with Defendant Borges on September 22, 2021, to discuss his

“Bias Report,” she told De Piero that “There is a problem with the white race.” De Piero

disclosed that he felt humiliated, disgraced, harassed, and discriminated against. Borges

instructed De Piero to “broaden your perspective” and “be an academician.” She instructed De

Piero to continue attending so-called “antiracist” workshops “until you get it.” Borges also

provided a phone number for De Piero to seek mental health support.

       121.    On October 4, 2021, De Piero published an opinion piece in several Pennsylvania

media outlets associated with Gannett Publishing (Bucks County Courier Times and Go Erie),

expressing concerns about how overt race discrimination was being peddled at Penn State. De

Piero expressed concern that race-based curricula would actually exacerbate student achievement

gaps by lowering standards and focusing attention away from teaching key academic skills in

favor of focus on immutable ascribed characteristics based on race. De Piero also criticized the

potential psychological effects on young children.

       122.    Ordinarily at Penn State Abington, when faculty attract attention in the media, this

is announced through an institution-wide, bi-monthly memo called the “News from Sutherland.”




                                                 20
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1         Filed 06/14/23     Page 21 of 36




All staff, faculty, and administrators receive the News from Sutherland, which highlights Penn

State faculty achievements.

       123.    On October 18, 2021, per the protocol provided by Penn State, De Piero reached

out to Penn State’s communication specialist, Regina Broscious. De Piero informed Broscious

about his publication and requested its inclusion in the next “News from Sutherland” memo.

       124.    When it wasn’t featured, De Piero reached out again to Broscious on November 8,

2021 to inquire why. Broscious acknowledged receiving De Piero’s opinion piece and having

added to a draft of it to the News from Sutherland. However, when the memo was sent to

Defendant Chancellor DelliCarpini, the decision was made to censor De Piero’s improper

thoughts and viewpoints. On information and belief, Defendant DelliCarpini made the decision

to cut out De Piero’s published opinion piece from the campus newsletter.

       125.    Continuing with Penn State’s racial harassment of De Piero, Defendant Naydan

and Lee-Amuzie led a “white privilege” meeting for the writing faculty based on required

reading titled “The Myth of the Colorblind Writing Classroom: White Instructors Confront

White Privilege in Their Classrooms.”

       126.    De Piero attended this so-called “training” meeting on October 18, 2021.

Defendant Naydan and Lee-Amuzie presented four excerpts, the first of which accused white

faculty of “unwittingly reproduc[ing] racist discourses and practices in our classrooms.”

       127.    De Piero objected that, given the title of the so-called training session and the fact

that he is a white writing instructor, he felt singled out and targeted in the meeting. De Piero

expressed his concern that he was accused of “reproduc[ing] racist discourses and practices in

our classrooms,” which, obviously, he was not. De Piero asked for examples of what this meant,

and what it meant to bring “equity” into his classroom.



                                                 21
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB          Document 1        Filed 06/14/23     Page 22 of 36




       128.    Soon thereafter, Naydan stated that the conversation was leaving her “feeling

uncomfortable.” De Piero agreed, stating, “I feel uncomfortable too. I’ve felt uncomfortable for

the last year and a half. But I’m also feeling confused because I thought our goal was to have

‘uncomfortable conversations.’”

       129.    Lee-Amuzie then opined about her daughter’s hair, referring vaguely to a “white

standard of beauty,” and then mentioned that this is all about understanding our “identity."

       130.    Commenting on the training “White People Are a Problem,” Lee-Amuzie said,

“it’s about a group.” De Piero responded, “I'm a member of that group — if it's not about me,

then who is it about?” Lee-Amuzie responded, “We’re in an ecosystem where fish are dying,”

among other bizarre statements, apparently demeaning people of color as dying fish.

       131.    At no time during the “White Instructors Confront Their White Privilege”

meeting did De Piero speak in an uncivil or hostile manner. He did not raise his voice. He did not

use insulting language to address Defendant Naydan or Lee-Amuzie.

       132.    But because De Piero challenged Penn State’s racist orthodoxy ascribing “racism”

to all white people, along with other deficient and demeaning characteristics, simply because of

the color of their skin, Defendant Naydan and Lee-Amuzie filed a bullying and harassment

complaint against De Piero after he dared to ask questions.

       133.    On October 27, 2021, De Piero met with the Associate Director of the Penn State

Affirmative Action Office, Carmen Borges, for a second time — this time, to discuss Naydan

and Lee-Amuzie’s retaliatory complaints against him.

       134.    Borges informed De Piero that Naydan’s decision to showcase the “White

Teachers are a Problem” video was protected speech and De Piero “need[ed] to get beyond that.”




                                                22
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB            Document 1        Filed 06/14/23      Page 23 of 36




       135.    But De Piero’s objection to these race-based training modules was not protected

speech in the eyes of Penn State.

       136.    Borges informed De Piero that he had used intimidating body language at the

meeting. De Piero reminded Borges that the meeting was on Zoom and detailed various facts: he

was seated the entire time, he did not point his finger in the camera, he did not raise a fist, he did

not gesture about wildly, he did not raise his voice, he did not use profanity, he did not insult

anybody, and he did not intentionally interrupt anybody.

       137.    All Borges could offer in response was to inform De Piero that “It was not

appropriate for you to ask for examples” of how to bring equity into his classroom. Borges then

accused De Piero of failing to understand “professional judgment calls.”

       138.    Following the meeting, De Piero requested information associated with the

complaints made against him. The nature of those complaints and the precise charges and

allegations against De Piero were kept secret from him by Defendant Borges, who refused to

provide this information to De Piero despite repeated requests.

       139.    Meanwhile, Defendant Borges sent De Piero a complaint conclusion letter, dated

November 12, 2021, based on his initial Bias Report that was sent to the Penn State Affirmative

Action Office on September 2021. While citing the “White Teachers are a Problem” training,

Defendant Borges stated that “The particular topic for academic discussion, while it may be

offensive to you, does not constitute discrimination towards you as an individual and does not

rise to a violation of the University’s Non-Discrimination policy.” At Penn State, it is perfectly

acceptable to harangue faculty (as well as students and staff) on the basis of race for being white,

but it is “bullying” to ask questions about it at a meeting.




                                                  23
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23     Page 24 of 36




       140.    In the formal complaint conclusion letter, Defendant Borges also made clear that

Defendant Naydan had compiled the so-called “training” materials as an official statement of

Penn State policy because it was “made in collaboration with Program faculty and Campus

administration in line with the Campus Strategic Plan.”

       141.    Approximately one month later (December 10, 2021), Defendant Borges sent a

second complaint conclusion letter, this time addressing Defendant Naydan and Lee-Amuzie’s

allegations that De Piero had hurt their feelings when he asked questions in a training seminar

attacking “White Instructors” for “White Privilege in Their Classrooms.” Defendant Borges

determined that Plaintiff had bullied and harassed his colleagues during the meeting by asking

questions that challenged Penn State’s race-based orthodoxy.

   D. De Piero Files his Second Complaint with the PHRC and EEOC

       142.    On December 21, 2021, De Piero filed a second complaint with governmental

agencies, outlining additional incidents of racial discrimination and harassment at Penn State as

well as, now, retaliation.

       143.    Meanwhile, Defendant Lisa Marranzini, Penn State’s Human Resources

Representative, and Defendant Baer insisted on meeting with De Piero to discuss the university’s

findings that he was a “bully” and harassed his colleagues by asking questions that hurt their

feelings. The meeting was scheduled for January 13, 2021.

       144.    On January 11, 2021, two days prior to meeting with his division supervisor and a

Human Resources representative, De Piero sent them both of his PHRC and his EEOC

complaints filed in April 2021 and then December 2021. De Piero reported in his email to

Defendants that he was being discriminated against on the basis of race, being harassed, and

being retaliated against for reporting racial discrimination and harassment.

       145.    Neither Defendant Baer nor Defendant Marranzini cared about that.
                                                24
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 25 of 36




       146.    De Piero requested that the meeting be recorded. Defendant Baer refused. She did

not want Penn State’s race-based dogma to be recorded.

       147.    Following the meeting, Defendant Marranzini and Defendant Baer issued a

formal Performance Expectations Notice that stated, “Your colleagues’ accounts of what

transpired in that meeting reflect poorly on you, as you caused significant disruption to the

meeting. This conduct is not becoming of a faculty member at our College and is not

acceptable.”

       148.    Penn State officially warned De Piero that any “future repeat of such conduct as

was exhibited in the meeting on October 18,” meaning dissenting from Penn State’s race-based

dogma, “may result in disciplinary action.”

       149.    At Penn State, a Performance Expectations Notice is defined as a “sanction” in

Penn State’s policy AD91, Discrimination and Harassment and Related Inappropriate Conduct.

       150.       The Affirmative Action Office’s findings of “bullying” and the Human Resource

Office’s Performance Expectations Notice remain a part of De Piero’s employment record at

Penn State.

       151.    This was not the end of Defendants’ harassment of De Piero. On June 8, 2022,

Defendant Baer emailed Plaintiff with his annual performance review.

       152.    De Piero’s service to the University included advising undergraduate students,

serving as an elected faculty senator, and serving as the appointed division representative to the

Academic Integrity Committee. Yet Penn State rated De Piero’s service component of his work

as only “fair to good,” equivalent to a 2 out of 5 on a 5-point scale. Before, De Piero had always

been rated “very good,” or 4 out of 5. His prior “excellent” teaching rating was also downgraded

to “very good.”



                                                25
        Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1        Filed 06/14/23       Page 26 of 36




        153.   The university’s condemnation of De Piero for dissenting during the October 18,

2021 training condemning “White Instructors” and “White Privilege in Their Classrooms” was

again criticized in his performance review. The performance review described De Piero’s

exercise of protected speech at a public university as “aggressive, disruptive, unprofessional and

in opposition to the University’s Values Statement” — once again identifying Penn State’s race-

based dogma, masquerading as “antiracism,” as official policy, from which no dissent is allowed.

        154.   De Piero’s negative performance review was clearly retaliation for his protected

speech and for his complaints of racial harassment both internally and with the EEOC and

PHRC.

        155.   Not only was Penn State deliberately indifferent to the racially hostile

environment for De Piero, Penn State actively treated De Piero as the problem, suggesting

mental health treatment and disciplining him for bullying when he dared to complain. As a

result, De Piero’s only option to escape the hostile environment was to leave Penn State. This

constructive termination occurred on August 2, 2022.

        156.   In De Piero’s resignation email, he wrote “[T]he University must strongly

reconsider whether its recent emphasis on so-called "antiracist" programming ultimately has

students’ best interests in mind, from their academic training to their psychological well-being.”

He also added, “I envisioned a long, productive career at Penn State as a composition instructor

and educational researcher, but the experiences of the past 2+ years have taught me that, at Penn

State, I'm unable to stand up for essential principles — for civil rights, for workers' rights, or for

educational excellence — without professional penalties being imposed. I will now turn my

attention to advocating for these principles from outside the Penn State University system.”




                                                  26
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1        Filed 06/14/23      Page 27 of 36




       157.    Upon learning of De Piero’s constructive discharge, Melinda Kennedy, a Penn

State Regional Human Resources Strategic Partner, forced De Piero to return the full amount of

his July salary, $3,386.77 even though De Piero had fulfilled all of his professional obligations

during July, including meeting with advisees.

       158.    Plaintiff’s constructive termination has caused him financial, emotional, and

reputational harm.


                                      CAUSES OF ACTION

    COUNT 1: Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §2000-e et seq.
                                       (Penn State)

       159.    Plaintiff Zack De Piero here incorporates all previous paragraphs as if completely

set forth in this paragraph.

       160.    Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 forbids an employer from discriminating

against any individual because of his race. Title VII applies equally to all races and forbids all

racial discrimination, as Chief Justice John Roberts has instructed, “The way to stop

discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.”

       161.    Defendant Penn State believes it knows better, however. Penn State has

implemented a university-wide policy and so-called “strategic plan,” euphemistically labeled

“antiracism,” in which it singles out white employees for harassment and discrimination under

the label of “white privilege,” “white supremacy,” and other racial stereotypes that attribute

negative values and characteristics to employees, including but not limited to Zack De Piero,

based upon the color of their skin rather than the content of their character.

       162.    Penn State’s race-based dogma not only demeans and humiliates white

employees, but it is also equally corrosive toward black employees and other employees of color,

whom Penn State celebrates by portraying them as somehow incapable of eloquent writing,

                                                 27
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB            Document 1        Filed 06/14/23      Page 28 of 36




incapable of doing math, incapable of objectivity, incapable of individuality, and incapable of

many other acquired traits that Penn State’s official policy deems innate characteristics of “white

supremacy.”

       163.    Penn State disallows any dissent from its official race-based dogma and sanctions

or otherwise punishes those like De Piero who speak out and object to its race-based dogma.

       164.    Penn State’s race-based dogma created a racially hostile environment in which it

became impossible for De Piero to do his work.

       165.    De Piero was asked to engage in illegal racial discrimination as a requirement of

his job when he was instructed to ensure consistent grades for students across “color line[s].”

       166.    The writing department in which De Piero taught was permeated with racial insult

directed at white faculty, including, but not limited to, asking white faculty to participate in

“training” where they were asked to hold their breath longer than black faculty in order to “feel

the pain”; telling white faculty to “stop talking”; telling white faculty to “Hold other white

people accountable”; and telling white faculty that “white teachers are a problem.”

       167.    De Piero was also individually singled out for ridicule and humiliation because of

the color of his skin. When he complained about the continuous stream of racial insult directed at

white faculty in the writing department, the director of the Affirmative Action Office told him

that “There is a problem with the white race,” that he should attend “antiracist” workshops “until

you get it,” and that he might have mental health issues.

       168.    De Piero was forced to work in an abusive environment that became so

intolerable that only his resignation qualified as a fitting response. He was constructively

terminated and discharged.




                                                 28
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB            Document 1         Filed 06/14/23   Page 29 of 36




       169.    Penn State’s disciplinary and grievance procedures were not available to De Piero

when he complained about Penn State’s race-based harassment and discrimination. He was

informed that these disciplinary and grievance procedures were not available to him because of

his race, which is white. He was specifically told by Defendant Borges that white people are the

problem.

       170.    By contrast, when De Piero voiced objections to Penn State’s race-based dogma,

Defendant Naydan, among others, complained to the AAO bureaucrats that he was “bullying”

and “harassing” them because he objected to Penn State’s race-based dogma.

       171.    Whereas Penn State and its AAO bureaucrats, including Defendant Borges,

rejected De Piero’s complaint of racial discrimination, the same AAO bureaucrats acted

immediately to discipline and punish De Piero.

       172.    Defendants Naydan, Borges, Baer, and Marranzini, among others, also retaliated

against De Piero for daring to dissent from Penn State’s racist dogma.

       173.    Despite being aware of direct discrimination against De Piero, Penn State did

nothing and failed to ameliorate the discrimination against De Piero in any way.

       174.    Because of Defendant Penn State’s illegal discrimination, De Piero has suffered

direct and indirect damages in an amount to be determined at trial.

       175.    Defendants’ conduct was motivated by evil motive and intent, namely to

discriminate on the basis of race, and involved reckless or callous indifference to De Piero’s

federally protected civil rights. Defendants’ conduct was undertaken in the face of the known,

perceived risk that their actions violated federal law.

       176.    Plaintiff Zack De Piero has exhausted his administrative remedies and his right to

sue letter is attached to this complaint. See Exhibit A.



                                                 29
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 30 of 36




                            COUNT 2: 42 USC § 1981
         (Trustee Defendants (official capacity), Defendants Borges, Baer, and Naydan
                                    (individual capacities))

       177.    Plaintiff incorporates paragraphs 1 through 158 as if fully set forth herein.

       178.    42 U.S.C. §1981 is a civil rights statute prohibiting racial discrimination. Section

1981 states in relevant part:

         All persons within the jurisdiction of the United States shall have the same right
         in every State and Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties,
         give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for
         the security of persons and property as is enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be
         subject to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses, and exactions of
         every kind, and to no other.

42 U.S.C. § 1981(a). And further:

         The rights protected by this section are protected against impairment by
         nongovernmental discrimination and impairment under color of State law.

42 U.S.C. § 1981(c).

       179.    42 U.S.C. §1981’s “equal benefit” clause prohibits discrimination that does not

involve contractual relationships.

       180.    The Supreme Court instructs that 42 U.S.C. § 1981 applies equally to white

persons and not only to historically disadvantaged minorities. McDonald v. Santa Fe Trail

Transport. Co., 427 U.S. 273, 295-96 (1976). “[T]he provision was meant, by its broad terms, to

proscribe discrimination in the making or enforcement of contracts against, or in favor of, any

race.” Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 244, 276 n.23, 123 S. Ct. 2411, 2430 (2003).

       181.    Defendants have announced that it is the so-called “strategic plan” of Penn State

to discriminate against employees (among others), including De Piero, because of the color of

their skin, which is white. In consequence, Defendants discriminated against De Piero in

contract, in particular but without limitation, his employment contract with Penn State.



                                                30
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB           Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 31 of 36




       182.    Penn State, Defendant Borges, Defendant Baer, and Defendant Naydan, without

limitation, acted to deprive De Piero of the equal protection of Penn State’s policies and

procedures when he submitted a complaint of racial discrimination to the AAO office.

       183.    Likewise, Defendants deprived De Piero of the equal protection of Penn State’s

policies and procedures when complaints were submitted against him. He was found responsible

and disciplined for supposed “bullying” and “harassment” — which consisted of nothing more

than objecting to Penn State’s race-based dogma in such a way that hurt Defendant Naydan’s

feelings — without proper notice or an opportunity to defend himself.

       184.    Defendants deprived De Piero of his benefits under his employment contract with

Penn State when they individually and collectively and acting as his supervisors forced him into

a constructive termination.

       185.    Defendant’s conduct was motivated by evil motive and intent, namely to

discriminate on the basis of race, and involved reckless or callous indifference to federally

protected rights of De Piero.

       186.    Because of Defendant Penn State’s illegal discrimination, De Piero has suffered

emotional harm and direct and indirect damages in an amount to be determined at trial.

    COUNT 3: Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. §2000d et seq.)
                                       (Penn State)

       187.    Plaintiff incorporates paragraphs 1 through 158 as if fully set forth herein.

       188.    Penn State receives federal funding.

       189.    Penn State subjected Plaintiff to direct discrimination and a hostile environment

on the basis of race.

       190.    Defendants have expressly propagated announced policies to make white people

feel uncomfortable and have singled out white employees, including De Piero, for having “white


                                                31
        Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB            Document 1       Filed 06/14/23      Page 32 of 36




privilege,” “white fragility,” and “white supremacy” among other noxious stereotypes based on

nothing more than skin color.

        191.     Defendants’ propagation of racial stereotypes is equally offensive and obnoxious

to people of color. Penn State instructs that qualities and characteristics such as writing

eloquently, mastering mathematics, individualism, thinking objectively, among others, are

somehow the badges of “white supremacy,” as if people of color are incapable of possessing

such characteristics unless they have somehow been hoodwinked by white people.

        192.     Defendants’ conduct was motivated by evil motive and intent, namely to

discriminate on the basis of race, and involved reckless or callous indifference to federally

protected rights of De Piero.

        193.     As a direct and proximate result of Penn State’s racist dogma, discrimination, and

hostile environment, De Piero was constructively terminated.

        194.     Because of Defendant Penn State’s illegal discrimination, De Piero has suffered

direct and indirect damages in an amount to be determined at trial.

                             COUNT 4: 42 USC § 1983
                                  First Amendment Retaliation
        (Board of Trustees (official capacity), Defendants DelliCarpini, Naydan, Borges,
                     Marranzini, Baer (official and individual capacities))

        195.     Plaintiff incorporates paragraphs 1 through 158 as if fully set forth herein.

        196.     De Piero engaged in constitutionally protected speech and was subjected to an

adverse employment action as a result.

        197.     De Piero’s speech related to a matter of public concern, namely, whether it is

appropriate to ascribe negative characteristics to a group of individuals based purely on the color

of their skin.




                                                  32
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB              Document 1    Filed 06/14/23      Page 33 of 36




       198.    As a result of his constitutionally protected speech, De Piero was found

responsible for “bullying” and was given a warning that remains in his employment file at Penn

State and has the continued potential to limit his future employment prospects.

       199.    The Individual Defendants’ conduct was motivated by evil motive and intent,

namely to discriminate on the basis of race, and involved reckless or callous indifference to

federally protected rights of De Piero.

       200.    The maintenance of this disciplinary warning in De Piero’s employment file is an

ongoing violation of his First Amendment rights.

       201.    Due to Defendants’ suppression of his protected speech, De Piero suffered an

adverse employment consequences in his constructive termination.

       202.    This disciplinary warning was an adverse employment action that would dissuade

a person of ordinary firmness from exercising their First Amendment rights.

       203.    Because of Defendant Penn State’s illegal discrimination, De Piero has suffered

direct and indirect damages in an amount to be determined at trial.



              COUNT 5:     Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. § 951
                                        (All Defendants)

       204.    Plaintiff incorporates paragraphs 1 through 158 as if fully set forth herein.

       205.    The Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. § 951, prohibits discrimination

in employment on the basis of, among other things, race, color, and ancestry.

       206.    As set forth more fully in paragraphs Counts 1-4 of this Complaint, Defendants

subjected De Piero to a racially hostile environment, demanded that he engage in racial

discrimination as part of his job, and retaliated against him when he complained about it.




                                                33
       Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB            Document 1         Filed 06/14/23      Page 34 of 36




       207.      The Individual Defendants exercised authority over De Piero as supervisors and

may be held liable for their direct acts of discrimination as well as for their failure to take action

to prevent discrimination by Penn State and Penn State Abington.

       208.      Because of Defendants’ illegal discrimination, De Piero has suffered direct and

indirect damages in an amount to be determined at trial.

       209.      Plaintiff Zack De Piero has exhausted his administrative remedies and his right to

sue letter is attached to this complaint. See Exhibit B.


                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF

Plaintiff Zack De Piero respectfully prays that this Court provide the following relief:

            i.    Declare Penn State in violation of Title VI and Title VII of the Civil
                  Rights Act of 1964, in violation of 42 USC § 1981, due to discrimination
                  on the basis of race;

           ii.    Declare all Defendants in violation of the First Amendment to the United
                  States Constitution as applied to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
                  through the Fourteenth Amendment to United States Constitution;

          iii.    Declare all defendants in violation of the Pennsylvania Human Relations
                  Act, 43 PA Stat. §§ 951-963;

          iv.     Order Defendants to expunge any and all disciplinary records from
                  Plaintiff De Piero’s personnel file;

           v.     Order Defendants to pay direct and indirect damages in an amount to be
                  proven at trial;

          vi.     Order the Individual Defendants to pay punitive damages under 42 USC
                  § 1983, 42 USC § 1981, and Title VII; and

          vii.    Order Defendants to pay Plaintiff De Piero’s reasonable attorneys fees
                  and costs under 42 USC § 1988(b) and 43 PA Stat. § 962(c.2);

         viii.    all Order such other legal and equitable relief as the Court finds just and
                  proper.




                                                  34
 Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB   Document 1   Filed 06/14/23       Page 35 of 36




PLAINTIFF DEMANDS A TRIAL BY JURY ON ALL CLAIMS SO TRIABLE



                                 Respectfully submitted,

                                 /s/ Samantha K. Harris
                                 Samantha K. Harris
                                 ALLEN HARRIS PLLC
                                 PO Box 673
                                 Narberth, PA 19072
                                 610-634-8258
                                 sharris@allenharrislaw.com




                               35
Case 2:23-cv-02281-WB   Document 1   Filed 06/14/23   Page 36 of 36




                              36
