Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/16990852/1/dajti-v-penn-community-bank/
Title: Complaint (Attorney) – #1 in DAJTI v. PENN COMMUNITY BANK (E.D. Pa., 2:20-cv-01483) – CourtListener.com

                   IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA


KLEVINA K. DAJTI, on behalf of                   :      CIVIL ACTION NO. ______
herself and all others similarly situated        :
                                                 :
                Plaintiff,                       :      JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
                                                 :
                       v.                        :
                                                 :      COLLECTIVE ACTION
PENN COMMUNITY BANK                              :
                                                 :
                Defendant.                       :




                             CIVIL ACTION COMPLAINT
                             AND COLLECTIVE ACTION

       Klevina K. Dajti (“Kelli” or “Plaintiff”) initiates this dispute against Penn

Community Bank (“PCB”, “Bank” or “Defendant”) on behalf of herself as an individual

former employee of PCB, and all others similarly situated, to enforce rights under the civil

rights laws of the United States and Pennsylvania, as well as the federal Fair Labor

Standards Act, seeking all compensation, damages, costs, fees, expenses, liquidated

damages, punitive damages and equitable relief to which she and putative opt-in plaintiffs

are entitled.



I.     INTRODUCTION

1.     In sum, Kelli, a three and one-half year employee of PCB’s Bensalem Branch,

served as Assistant Manager with a title change to Sales and Service Manager at PCB’s



                                             1
Bensalem Branch. She was unlawfully fired on 11/29/18 in the midst of her dealing with

the care and treatment of her 4 year old son who was diagnosed in 2/2018 with high risk

leukemia, and the need for expressing breast milk for her new born child (4/2018). With

the onset of her son’s illness and the birth of her son, she was subjected to harassment by

former Branch Manager, K.M., solely because Kelli sought care for her seriously ill four

year old son and sought reasonable break time to express breast milk for her new born

nursing child in a clean and private location shielded from view and free from intrusion

from PCB coworkers and the public. The indifference of her Branch Manager and the

bank’s Human Resources personnel to accommodations stemming from Kelli’s motherly

dedication constituted gross violations of Kelli’s federal and state protected rights and

entitlements including:

-      Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 (“PDA”), which amended Title VII of the

Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. ¶¶ 2000e et seq., prohibiting discrimination on the

basis of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions;

-      Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (“PHRA”), 43 P.S. §§ 951 et seq.,

prohibiting sex discrimination and considering discrimination on the basis of maternity or

pregnancy to be a form of sex discrimination;

-      Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (“Title VII”), as amended, 42 U.S.C. ¶¶

2000e et seq., prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sex and considering the following

to be forms of sex discrimination: (i) failure to make any meaningful accommodation for

an employee’s expressing breast milk during the workday as needed; (ii) impeding an

employee in her using a private and secure location to express her breast milk; (iii)


                                             2
disparate break time treatment; and (iv) retaliation against an employee for opposing,

complaining and raising discrimination on the basis of sex (including pregnancy and

lactation restrictions);

-      PHRA, discrimination on the basis of sex and considering the following to be forms

of sex discrimination:     (i) failure to make any meaningful accommodation for an

employee’s expressing breast milk during the workday as needed; (ii) impeding an

employee in her using a private and secure location to express her breast milk; (iii)

disparate break time treatment; and (iv) retaliation against an employee for opposing,

complaining and raising discrimination on the basis of sex (including pregnancy and

lactation restrictions);

-      Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., prohibiting

associational disability discrimination against an employee who has an “association” with

someone with a disability (42 U.S.C. §§ 12112(b)(4) and 12182(b)(1)(E)) and retaliation

against an employee for opposing, complaining and raising discrimination on the basis of

disability;

-      PHRA, prohibiting associational disability discrimination against an employee who

has an “association” with someone with a disability and retaliation against an employee for

opposing, complaining and raising discrimination on the basis of disability;

-      Family and Medical Leave Act (“FMLA”), 29 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. and 29

C.F.R. § 825.220, prohibiting retaliation against an employee who asserts FMLA rights or

for raising an FMLA claim; and




                                            3
-      Fair Labor Standards Act (“FLSA”), 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., prohibiting

retaliation against an employee who asserts FLSA rights or for raising an FLSA claim

(Section 215 (a)(3)); and failure to designate a functional lactation place and lactation time

requirements (Section 207(r)) as well as retaliation.

       As the below factual allegations demonstrate, PCB’s treatment and termination of

Plaintiff’s employment constitute violations of the PDA, ADA FMLA, FLSA and PHRA,

and that the asserted reasons for Plaintiff’s termination are wholly pretextual and baseless.



II.    PARTIES

2.     Plaintiff is an adult female and citizen of the United States.

3.     PCB is a local community bank serving Lower, Middle and Upper Bucks County,

Pennsylvania, as well as surrounding geographical areas with banking, insurance and

investment services.



III.   JURISDICTION

4.     This Court may properly maintain personal jurisdiction over Defendant because

Defendant’s contacts with this State and this Judicial District are sufficient for the

exercise of jurisdiction over Defendant to comply with traditional notions of fair play and

substantial justice, satisfying the standard set forth by the United States Supreme Court

in Int’l Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945) and its progeny.

5.     The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has



                                              4
original subject matter jurisdiction over this action pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331 and

1343(a)(4) because it arises under the laws of the United States and seeks redress for

violations of civil rights. This Court also may maintain supplemental jurisdiction over

the State law claims set forth herein pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1367(a) and Rule 8(a) of

the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure because they are sufficiently related to the claims

within this Court’s original jurisdiction that they form part of the same case or

controversy.

6.     Venue is properly laid in this District pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1391(b)(2) and

(c) because a substantial part of the events or omissions giving rise to the claims set forth

herein occurred in this judicial district and Defendant is subject to personal jurisdiction

in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.




IV.    PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS

7.     Plaintiff has exhausted all of the procedural and administrative requirements for

proceeding with her claims of employment discrimination.

8.     On February 19, 2019, within 300 days of the acts of which she complains,

Plaintiff dual filed charges of employment discrimination against Defendant with the

Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (which assigned to it Charge No. 530-

2019-02049) and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission.

9.     On approximately January 14, 2020, less than 90 days prior to the filing of this

Complaint, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued a Notice of Right


                                             5
to Sue with respect to Plaintiff’s charges.



V.     PRELIMINARY STATEMENT OF COLLECTIVE ACTION UNDER FLSA

10.      Plaintiff was an employee in good standing of PCB from about June 2015 to

November 29, 2018, who, along with the proposed collective action members, was

damaged by Defendant’s intentional and bad faith failure to comply with FLSA Section

207(r) which provides in pertinent part:

       (r) REASONABLE BREAK TIME FOR NURSING MOTHERS
             (1) An employer shall provide –

              (A) a reasonable break time for an employee to express breast milk
              for her nursing child for 1 year after the child’s birth each time
              such employee has need to express the milk; and

              (B) a place, other than a bathroom, that is shielded from view and
              free from intrusion from coworkers and the public, which may be
              used by an employee to express breast milk.

11.    Plaintiff, and the proposed collective action members, were employed by PCB in

the classification of PCB Branch Employees and were denied or deprived of functional

designated lactation space and/or lactation break time as required by the FLSA, Section

207(r), and/or were adversely impacted in terms and conditions of employment for

advocating or requesting functional lactation space and lactation break times at their

respective PCB work locations.

12.    As a consequence of these breaches by Defendant of its duty under the FLSA,

Plaintiff and the proposed collective action members have suffered substantial



                                              6
monetary losses and herein seek to be made whole for such losses. Plaintiff and the

proposed collective action members further seek appropriate injunctive relief requiring

future compliance with the lactation space and break time required by Section 207(r)

of the FLSA, as well as liquidated (double) damages pursuant to Section 626(b) of the

FLSA.




VI.      COLLECTIVE ACTION ALLEGATIONS

13.      This action includes a statewide disparate treatment collective action for

violations of the FLSA which is enforced pursuant to the collective action provisions of

the FLSA, 29 U.S.C. § 216(b) and brought on behalf of Plaintiff and all other persons

similarly situated, specifically as follows:

           All persons who are or were employed by PCB working in or having
           worked in any PCB Branch office and were not provided a functional
           designated lactation space and/or lactation break time as required by
           the FLSA, Section 207(r), and/or who were adversely impacted in
           terms and conditions of employment for advocating for a functional
           designated lactation space and lactation break times.

14.      The FLSA Collective Action Class is referred to herein as the “Class”.

Plaintiff consents in writing to be a party to the FLSA Collective Action Class pursuant

to 29 U.S.C. § 216(b) and Plaintiff’s consent is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

15.      As explained herein, under applicable employment laws, Plaintiff and

members of the Class are entitled to compensation. As a consequence of the breaches

by Defendant of its duty under the FLSA, Plaintiff and the proposed collective action


                                               7
members have suffered substantial monetary losses and herein seek to be made whole for

such losses.    Plaintiff and the proposed collective action members further seek

appropriate injunctive relief requiring future compliance with the lactation space and

lactation break time required by Section 207(r) of the FLSA, as well as liquidated

(double) damages pursuant to Section 626(b) of the FLSA.

16.       Defendant willfully and intentionally failed, delayed or refused to provide its

female Branch employees functional designated lactation space and/or lactation break time

as required by the FLSA, Section 207(r), and/or adversely impacted its employees in terms

and conditions of employment for advocating or requesting functional lactation space and

lactation break times at their respective PCB work locations.

17.       The number of members of the Class described herein are believed to be so

numerous that joinder of all members is impracticable.

18.      All of the questions of fact and law that arise as a result of the allegations set forth

herein are common to all of the members of the proposed Class.

19.      As an injured former permanent PCB employee, Plaintiff will fairly and

adequately protect all interests of the proposed Class.

20.      Proposed collective action members, like Plaintiff, have been former permanent

employees of PCB during the period between February 2017 and February 2020 at any one

of the numerous PCB Branches who while so employed were denied functional designated

lactation space and/or lactation break time as required by the FLSA, Section 207(r), and/or


                                               8
were adversely impacted employees in terms and conditions of employment for advocating

or requesting functional lactation space and lactation break times at their respective PCB

work locations.

21.      Defendant has acted and refused to act on grounds applicable to the Class

in that Plaintiff was a permanent employee of PCB during the period between February

2015 and November 2018 at any one of the numerous PCB Branches who while so

employed was denied functional designated lactation space and/or lactation break time as

required by the FLSA, Section 207(r), and/or was adversely impacted in terms and

conditions of employment for advocating or requesting functional lactation space and

lactation break times at her PCB work location.

22.      The collective action mechanism is superior to other available methods for a

fair and efficient adjudication of this controversy. The damages suffered by individual

members of the Class may be relatively small when compared to the expense and burden

of litigation, making it virtually impossible for members of the Class to individually seek

redress for the wrongs done to them.

23.      Furthermore, even if any member of the Class could afford individual

litigation against Defendant, it would be unduly burdensome to the judicial system.

The instant methodology, when compared to numerous individual actions, has fewer

management difficulties and provides the benefits of unitary adjudication, economies

of scale, and comprehensive supervision by a single court. Concentrating this litigation

in one forum will promote judicial economy and parity among the claims of individual


                                            9
members of the Class and provide for judicial consistency.

24.       Plaintiff will fairly and adequately protect the interests of the Class, as her

interests are in complete alignment with those of the Class, i.e., to prove and then

eradicate Defendant’s unlawful employment practices.

25.       Counsel for Plaintiff will adequately protect the interests of the Class. Such

counsel is experienced with employment/collective action litigation.

26.       Plaintiff and the Class she represents have suffered and will continue to

suffer irreparable damage from the illegal policy, practice and custom regarding

Defendant’s unlawful employment practices.

27.      Defendant has engaged in a continuing violation of the FLSA and the PHRA.

28.      Plaintiff, as well as the individuals she seeks to represents, were denied functional

designated lactation space and/or lactation break time as required by the FLSA, Section

207(r), and/or were adversely impacted in terms and conditions of employment for

advocating or requesting functional lactation space and lactation break times at their

respective PCB work locations.       These violations were intended by Defendant, and

accordingly, constitute a willful violation of the FLSA and the PHRA.

29.      Defendant has engaged in a continuing violation of the FLSA and the PHRA.

30.      Defendant’s actions as described herein were intentional and constitute a willful

violation of the FLSA and the PHRA.

31.      Plaintiff has obtained the undersigned Counsel, who are experienced in labor,

employment and class and collective action litigation, for these purposes.


                                             10
VII.     FACTUAL BACKGROUND

32.      Kelli was hired by PCB to work in its Bensalem Pennsylvania Branch in or about

June 2015. She was hired by and at all relevant times was supervised by Branch Manager

K.M. During a three year period in which Kelli worked under the supervision of K.M., 8

Branch employees quit (7 females and 1 male), 2 female Branch employees transferred to

a different Branch, and 1 Branch employee was fired shortly after his wife gave birth to a

second child.

33.    During her tenure with PCB, Kelli maintained an unblemished record and received

annual bonuses and salary increases.

34.    In April 2018, Kelli took FMLA leave with the birth of her second child. Also,

since her older son required weekly chemotherapy at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia

every Thursday, Kelli requested and was allowed an additional four weeks of unpaid leave

to care for both children.

35.    She returned to work in August 2018 and did not miss a day’s work thereafter except

Thursdays for which she used her own accrued personal time off (PTO). At the time, Kelli

still had about 160 hours of accrued PTO time remaining.

36.    Thereafter, Kelli was pressured by Branch Manager K.M. to work more time

including Thursdays and Saturdays thereby substantially interfering with the health care of

her older child.




                                            11
37.    Also, Branch Manager K.M. commented critically on the birth of Kelli’s second

child and was highly uncooperative in making any meaningful accommodation for Kelli’s

expressing breast milk at the Branch during the workday as needed. Kelli thus was

impeded in her using a private and secure location to express her breast milk and was not

provided with a designated lactation room as required by the FLSA.

38.    Kelli raised her concerns with the bank’s Human Resources Department (HR)

regarding the difficulties she was encountering in expressing her breast milk and attending

to her son’s medical needs. She received no meaningful accommodation from HR.

39.    Rather, Branch Manager K.M., on about 11/14/18, lodged a formal Corrective

Action notice against Kelli with which she disagreed.

40.    Shortly thereafter on 11/19/18, Kelli met with the Defendant’s HR Representatives

to review her dispute with the issuance of the Corrective Action notice by K.M. During

the course of that meeting, Kelli was asked by the HR Representatives about information

that had been received by PCB from another Branch team member that K.M. was

performing unauthorized transactions. In response, Kelli confirmed that Branch Manager

K.M. without authorization had completed bank withdrawals from a customer’s account

on which K.M. was not an authorized user. This conduct by K.M. resulted in her separation

of her employment with PCB.

41.    Thereafter, HR instructed Branch personnel that if a customer asked to speak with

K.M. they were to respond only that she was no longer with the Bank and ask how the

inquiring customer can be helped. The Branch employees were further directed not to




                                            12
provide any additional information regarding K.M.’s departure from the Bank including to

neither confirm nor deny whether she had resigned or had been terminated.

42.    According to PCB, K.M. called the Bank complaining that Kelli had provided a

PCB customer with information regarding K.M.’s separation from employment from PCB.

K.M. is said by PCB to have complained to the Bank that a second customer also was told

by Kelli that K.M. had been fired.

43.    PCB wrongly and misleadingly maintains that it conducted an investigation into

K.M.’s complaints and allegedly claims to have spoken directly with at least one of those

customers who is said to have confirmed that Kelli had done as K.M. complained. Yet,

there were no discussion by PCB representatives with Kelli about those claims. Rather,

two days later on 11/29/18, PCB pretextually and without basis and full and fair

investigation summarily discharged Kelli allegedly for putting PCB at risk and

jeopardizing its relations with its customers by her alleged disclosures to that customer.

44.    Kelli denies having made any such comments about K.M. to any customer of the

Bank. Rather, it is believed and therefore alleged that in a fit of revenge for Kelli’s

confirming that K.M. broke PCB security protocols, K.M. colluded with a customer to

create the claim against Kelli.

45.    It must be concluded that in view of PCB’s inexplicable conduct and wholly lacking

investigation, the reason for Kelli’s discharge maintained by PCB was a pretext and was a

consequence of Kelli’s protected nursing needs and medical needs for her son.

46.    Contrary to Defendant’s assertion, once Kelli returned to work on August 6, 2018,

PCB did not “adjust [her] work schedule to make it more convenient for [her] to take care


                                             13
of [her] child”. Rather, the PCB HR Department and K.M. knew Kelli’s family and

medical circumstances before her return but nonetheless gave her a difficult and

troublesome time when Plaintiff’s weekly day off was necessary. Plaintiff was expected

by them to work every Saturday of the month in order to be able to take off a day during

the week to take her son to the hospital for needed treatment.

47.     Harsh, abusive and callous comments were frequently made by K.M. to Kelli, for

example, when the two of them were preparing the work schedule, K.M. stated to her that

“We don't have enough staff, do you really need off and can’t your family members help?”

Such comments were not even made in private but Branch staff also were present.

48.     Kelli was not taking extended break time but took only the usual paid break that was

taken prior to her maternity leave which was anywhere from 45 minutes to an hour.

49.     Within Kelli’s once per day 45 minute break, she had to drive home, finish her breast

pumping session, eat her lunch and return to work on time. This barely left her the time to

actually eat. Going home on break was Kelli’s only option for breast pumping until K.M.

complained to PCB that she could not handle the branch traffic herself during those break

periods and wanted Kelli to start taking only a break time of 30 minutes per day. The

demanded shorter break time made it impossible for Kelli to pump and to timely return to

the Branch.

50.     Also, when Kelli returned to work in August 2018, there was no designated lactation

room.

51.     In about January 2017, a former PCB Branch employee returned from her maternity

leave after having her second child. She was asked by K.M. to pump her breasts outside


                                             14
of the Branch premises. There was no designated lactation room in the Branch. This

similarly situated employee lived in New Jersey and had a far commute so it was not

possible for her to travel to her home to breast pump. The Bank used an old and filthy

storage room in the Branch as the “designated lactation room” by putting up a portable

room divider to hide the camera from capturing this other employee’s pumping session.

She complained to PCB about this situation several times but nothing was done by

Defendant to alleviate this problem and her distress. The above described employee ended

up quitting shortly thereafter.

52.    Kelli did notify PCB’s HR and Branch Manager K.M. several times during the

Summer of 2018 that she was nursing her new born child and would be doing so until the

baby turned one year old as had been a family tradition.

53.    During the period when Kelli requested to extend her FMLA leave, she was asked

by both K.M. and PCB HR if she would be breast pumping once she returned to work.

Kelli unequivocally notified them that she would be breast pumping and would require a

designated lactation room at the Branch. Upon her return to work, however, nothing was

done about the breast feeding situation and Kelli was only given the option to go home to

pump her breasts since there allegedly was no space in the Branch to add anything new,

and the previous portable wall had been removed in about mid-2017.

54.    Finally, after Kelli’s many attempts to address this breast feeding dilemma with HR

and K.M., HR representatives came to the Branch on 10/22/18 (her son’s fifth birthday) to

review the issue. At that time, Plaintiff met with Kirsten Palmieri, a PCB Human

Resources representative, who stated “I was not aware of the situation and was not


                                            15
informed of the details by [K.M.] as I should have been”.

55.   In or about the first week of November 2018, Defendant modified one of the two

Branch bathrooms to be used as a breast pumping station. The contractor doing that work

merely removed the toilet and a chair was added. During the period of construction, Kelli

was forced to use the kitchen for her breast pumping.

56.   That kitchen was a common area for all employees. Kelli would lock the door for

about 20 minutes twice a day. Other colleagues were unhappy with not having access to

the only refrigerator and kitchen in the Branch building while Kelli was breast pumping.

57.   Were Kelli not to use this only option offered, she would have to punch out and go

home for her pumping/lunch break which would leave her with about 35-36 hours of

working time per week. To qualify for medical benefits as a full time employee, Kelli

needed at least 37-38 work hours per week. Had there been a designated lactation room as

Kelli requested there would have been no need for the delayed transformation of one of the

restrooms and her having to use the only kitchen for breast pumping.

58.   After the onset of her son’s illness and the birth of her child, Kelli was put under

extraordinary scrutiny by K.M. and was given and did more work just to make sure that

she was given her day off when needed to help her son and his hospital needs.

59.   K.M. was in charge of the Branch work schedule. She did not want Kelli taking

more than one break per day, even though Kelli was breast pumping for milk for her

newborn. This same once a day break rule applied even when there were 9-10 hour work

days, due, for example, to overtime or meetings. In this regard, K.M. stated “I could not

handle running the branch if [Kelli] were to take more than one break”. This was stated in


                                           16
front of the entire Branch staff several times during the staffs “morning huddle meetings”.

60.    K.M did not have children and frequently made negative and harassing comments

about Kelli needing more breaks. This was a very painful experience on Kelli’s body and

psyche.

61.    For about two months Kelli dealt with this harassment just to avoid retaliation from

K.M. who controlled Kelli’s scheduling needs.

62.    K.M. frequently made comments to Kelli about breastfeeding not being a necessity.

She stated, for example, “baby formula is enough for babies in this generation, and mothers

who still breastfeed are very old-school and impractical”.

63.    Plaintiff was terminated on November 29, 2018, and during the meeting at which

she was summarily terminated, she was told by HR Representative Georgeann McKenna,

that “a bank customer called in to complain about [Kelli] informing the customer that K.M.

had been fired or let go”.

64.    Kelli did not speak to anyone about the termination of K.M. Branch personnel were

not given a reason by HR as to why K.M. was no longer with PCB. At all times, Kelli only

informed inquiring customers that “K.M. is no longer with the bank and I am here to help”.

65.    Prior to Kelli’s son getting sick and the birth of her second child, PCB never had

any issues with Kelli or her performance. Kelli was given great customer ratings and

terrific annual reviews. Yet, HR did not even question Kelli about her allegedly saying

anything to customers about K.M.’s termination.

66.    Kelli’s termination was motivated by ill-intentions and discriminatory/retaliatory

motives. Her elder son was diagnosed with high risk leukemia in February 2018 and Kelli

                                            17
gave birth to her younger son in April 2018. She would typically work eight to nine or ten

hour shifts while pregnant, go to the hospital to take care of her elder son during his most

critical times of his illness, sleep at the hospital overnight and return to work at 8:30 a.m.

During that two month period, Kelli did not take an entire day off. Rather, she would go

to check her baby on stress monitors during longer unpaid lunch breaks. Kelli worked till

her last day of pregnancy and started her maternity leave on the day of delivery. Kelli was

committed to excellence, she took pride in helping her customers and she exceeded her

goals. Defendant had been very happy with Kelli while she helped generate substantial

commercial accounts and made a profit for PCB. However, PCB grew unhappy with her

when the necessity of her caring for her son arose and lactation at the workplace became

essential, and ultimately fired her because she was performing her motherly functions and

had the “audacity” to complain when she was impeded by PCB in exercising her right to

do so.



                                   COUNT I
                      VIOLATIONS OF THE PDA AND TITLE VII

67.      Plaintiff adopts and incorporates herein the preceding allegations of the Complaint,

as if fully rewritten herein.

68.      In the manner set forth above, Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff in violation

of the PDA on the basis of her pregnancy.

69.      The PDA prohibits discrimination on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, or related

medical conditions and considers the following to be forms of pregnancy discrimination:



                                              18
(i) failure to make any meaningful accommodation for an employee’s expressing breast

milk during the workday as needed; (ii) impeding an employee in her using a private and

secure location to express her breast milk; (iii) disparate break time treatment; and (iv)

retaliation against an employee for opposing, complaining and raising discrimination on

the basis of sex (including pregnancy and lactation restrictions).

70.    Further, in the manner set forth above, Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff in

violation Title VII on the basis of her sex and pregnancy.

71.    In the manner set forth above and in violation of the PDA and Title VII, Defendant

has engaged in willful and intentional sex and pregnancy discrimination and

retaliation against Plaintiff and acted with malice and reckless indifference to

Plaintiffs right under the PDA and Title VII to be free from discrimination based on

her sex and pregnancy and to be free of retaliation.

72.    As a result of the sex and pregnancy discrimination and retaliation intentionally

inflicted by Defendant, Plaintiff has suffered damages including but not limited to lost

earnings and benefits. As a result of the sex and pregnancy discrimination and

retaliation inflicted by Defendants, Plaintiff has suffered emotional pain, anguish and

suffering, ridicule, humiliation, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-

pecuniary losses.



                                   COUNT II
                            VIOLATIONS OF THE PHRA

73.       Plaintiff adopts and incorporates herein the preceding allegations of the



                                             19
Complaint, as if fully rewritten herein.

74.        In the manner set forth above, Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff in

violation PHRA on the basis of sex, pregnancy and retaliation. The PHRA prohibits sex

discrimination and considers discrimination on the basis of maternity or pregnancy to be a

form of sex discrimination. The PHRA prohibits discrimination on the basis of pregnancy,

childbirth, or related medical conditions and considers the following to be forms of

pregnancy discrimination: (i) failure to make any meaningful accommodation for an

employee’s expressing breast milk during the workday as needed; (ii) impeding an

employee in her using a private and secure location to express her breast milk; (iii)

disparate break time treatment; and (iv) retaliation against an employee for opposing,

complaining and raising discrimination on the basis of sex (including pregnancy and

lactation restrictions).

75.        In the manner set forth above and in violation of the PHRA, Defendant has

engaged in willful and intentional sex and pregnancy discrimination and retaliation

against Plaintiff and acted with malice and reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s right

under the PHRA to be free from discrimination based on her sex and pregnancy and to

be free of retaliation.

76.       As a result of the sex and pregnancy discrimination and retaliation

intentionally inflicted by Defendant, Plaintiff has suffered damages including but not

limited to lost earnings and benefits.

77.       As a result of the sex and pregnancy discrimination and retaliation inflicted

by Defendant, Plaintiff has suffered emotional pain, anguish and suffering, ridicule,


                                           20
humiliation, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.



                                   COUNT III
                             VIOLATIONS OF THE ADA

78.       Plaintiff adopts and incorporates herein the preceding allegations of the

Complaint, as if fully rewritten herein.

79.       In the manner set forth above, Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff in

violation of the ADA. The ADA prohibits associational disability discrimination against

an employee who has an “association” with someone with a disability (42 U.S.C. §§

12112(b)(4) and 12182(b)(1)(E)) and retaliation against an employee for opposing,

complaining and raising discrimination on the basis of disability, to wit, her son’s cancer

condition. This law prohibits discrimination against “a qualified individual because of the

known disability of an individual with whom the qualified individual is known to have a

relationship or association.” Thus, a parent has a relationship with a child with a disability.

42 U.S.C. § 12182(b)(1)(E)(Title III); 28 CFR § 35.130(g). Kelli was a “qualified

individual” within the meaning of the ADA.

80.       In the manner set forth above and in violation of the ADA, Defendant has

engaged in willful and intentional associational disability discrimination sex and

retaliation against Plaintiff and acted with malice and reckless indifference to

Plaintiff’s right under the ADA to be free from discrimination based on her association

with her son during his cancer disability condition.

81.       As a result of Plaintiff’s association with her son during his period of high



                                              21
risk leukemia, Defendant intentionally retaliated against Plaintiff who consequently

suffered damages including but not limited to lost earnings and benefits.

82.       As a result of the Plaintiff’s association with her son during his period of high

risk leukemia, and the retaliation inflicted by Defendant, Plaintiff has suffered

emotional pain, anguish and suffering, ridicule, humiliation, inconvenience, loss of

enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.



                                   COUNT IV
                             VIOLATION OF THE FLSA

83.       Plaintiff adopts and incorporates herein the preceding allegations of the

Complaint, as if fully rewritten herein.

84.       In the manner set forth above, Defendant violated the FLSA in that Defendant

failed, delayed and refused to timely provide Plaintiff with a functional designated lactation

place and lactation break time (Section 207(r)) and retaliation. The FLSA prohibits

retaliation against an employee who asserts FLSA rights or for raising an FLSA claim

(Section 215 (a)(3)), and failure, delay and/or refusal to timely provide a designated

lactation place and lactation break time.

85.       In the manner set forth above and in violation of the FLSA, Defendant has

engaged in a willful and intentional failure, delay and/or refusal to timely provide a

functionally designated lactation place and lactation break time for Plaintiff, and acted with

malice and reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s right under the FLSA to be provided

with a functional designated lactation place and lactation break time.



                                             22
86.       As a result of Defendant’s failure, delay and/or refusal to timely provide a

functional designated lactation place and lactation break time for Plaintiff, and retaliation,

Plaintiff has suffered damages including but not limited to lost earnings and benefits.

87.       As a result of Defendant’s failure, delay and/or refusal to timely provide a

functional designated lactation place and lactation break time for Plaintiff, and retaliation,

the Plaintiff has suffered emotional pain, anguish and suffering, ridicule, humiliation,

inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.


                                   COUNT V
                            VIOLATIONS OF THE FMLA

88.       Plaintiff adopts and incorporates herein the preceding allegations of the

Complaint, as if fully rewritten herein.

89.       In the manner set forth above, Defendant violated the FMLA and 29 C.F.R. §

825.220, which prohibits retaliation against an employee such as Plaintiff who asserts

FMLA rights or for raising an FMLA claim.

90.       In the manner set forth above, and in violation of the FMLA, Defendant has

engaged in a willful and intentional retaliation against Plaintiff who asserted her FMLA

rights or for raising an FMLA claim, and acted with malice and reckless indifference to

Plaintiff’s right under the FMLA to be free of retaliation for asserting FMLA rights or

for raising an FMLA claim.

91.       As a result of Defendant’s retaliation against Plaintiff, she has suffered

damages including but not limited to lost earnings and benefits.

92.       As a result of Defendant’s retaliation against Plaintiff, she has suffered


                                             23
emotional pain, anguish and suffering, ridicule, humiliation, inconvenience, loss of

enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.



                             COUNT VI
            COLLECTIVE ACTION FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE FLSA

93.        Plaintiff adopts and incorporates herein the preceding allegations of the

Complaint, as if fully rewritten herein.

94.        In the manner set forth above, Defendant violated the FLSA in that Defendant

failed, delayed and refused to timely provide Plaintiff and persons similarly situated with

a functional designated lactation place and lactation break time (Section 207(r)) and

retaliation. This action includes a statewide FLSA collective action pursuant to 29 U.S.C.

§ 216(b) and brought on behalf of Plaintiff and all other persons similarly situated as

follows:

            All persons who are or were employed by PCB working in or having
            worked in any PCB branch office and were not provided a functional
            designated lactation space and/or break time as required by the
            FLSA, Section 207(r), and/or who were adversely impacted in terms
            and conditions of employment for advocating for a functional
            designated lactation space and lactation break times.

95.        In the manner set forth above and in violation of the FLSA, Defendant has

engaged in a willful and intentional failure, delay and/or refusal to timely provide a

functional designated lactation place and lactation break time for Plaintiff and persons

similarly situated, and acted with malice and reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s (and

persons similarly situated), right under the FLSA to be provided with a functional

designated lactation place and lactation break time.


                                            24
96.         As a result of Defendant’s failure, delay and/or refusal to timely provide a

functional designated lactation place and lactation break time for Plaintiff and persons

similarly situated, Plaintiff and persons similarly situated have suffered damages

including but not limited to lost earnings and benefits.

97.         As a result of Defendant’s failure, delay and/or refusal to timely provide a

functionally designated lactation place and lactation break time for Plaintiff and persons

similarly situated, Plaintiff and persons similarly situated have suffered emotional pain,

anguish and suffering, ridicule, humiliation, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life,

and other non-pecuniary losses.



WHEREFORE, and as it pertains to the FLSA, Plaintiff prays that this Court enter an

order providing that:

      a) This action shall be designated as a collective action;

      b) Plaintiff and her counsel shall represent the Collective;

      c) Defendant is to be permanently enjoined from discriminating/retaliating against

         Plaintiff and any member of the Collective on any basis forbidden by the FLSA;

      d) Defendant is to promulgate and/or adhere to a policy of providing a functional

         designated lactation space and lactation time as required by the FLSA, Section

         207(r);

      e) Defendant is to compensate Plaintiff and all members of the Collective, and

         making them whole for any and all pay and benefits any of them would have

         received had it not been for Defendant’s illegal actions, including but not limited to


                                               25
       back pay, front pay, interest, salary, pay increases, bonuses, insurance, benefits,

      training, promotions, lost 401K or retirement benefits, and seniority;

   f) Plaintiff and all members of the Collective are to be awarded compensatory

      damages for the mental anguish, emotional distress, pain and suffering caused by

       Defendant’s actions;

   g) Double damages are to be awarded pursuant to Section 626(b) of the FLSA;

   h) Plaintiff and all members of the Collective are to be accorded equitable or injunctive

       relief as allowed by the FLSA;

   i) Plaintiff and all members of the Collective are to be awarded the costs and expenses

       of this action and reasonable attorneys’ fees as provided by the FLSA;

   j) Plaintiff and all members of the Collective are to be awarded the costs and expenses

       of this action and reasonable attorneys’ fees as provided by applicable law;

   k) Punitive damages are to be awarded, as permitted by applicable law.



WHEREFORE, and as it pertains to the other causes of action, Plaintiff prays that this

Court enter an order providing that:

   a) Defendant is to be permanently enjoined from discriminating/retaliating against

       Plaintiff on any basis forbidden by Title VII, PHRA, ADA, FMLA and other

       applicable federal and state law;

   b) Defendant     is   to   promulgate   and/or    adhere   to   a   policy   prohibiting

       discrimination/retaliation in the workplace, and ensure this policy is fairly and

       adequately enforced;


                                            26
c) Defendant is to compensate Plaintiff, reimburse Plaintiff, and make Plaintiff whole

   for any and all pay and benefits Plaintiff would have received had it not been for

   Defendant’s illegal actions, including but not limited to back pay, front pay, interest,

   salary, pay increases, bonuses, insurance, benefits, training, promotions, lost 401K

   or retirement benefits, and seniority;

d) Plaintiff is to be awarded compensatory damages for the mental anguish, emotional

   distress, pain and suffering caused by Defendant’s actions;

e) Plaintiff is to be awarded punitive damages as allowed by the Title VII in an amount

   believed by the Court or trier of fact to be appropriate to punish Defendant for its

   willful, deliberate, malicious, reckless and outrageous conduct, and to deter

   Defendant or other employers from engaging in such misconduct in the future;

f) Plaintiff shall receive an additional amount as liquidated damages, pursuant to the

   FMLA;

g) Plaintiff is to be accorded equitable or injunctive relief as allowed by applicable law;

h) Plaintiff is to be awarded the costs and expenses of this action and reasonable

   attorneys’ fees;

i) This Court should grant any and all other such legal or equitable relief as it deems

   necessary, just, and appropriate;




                                            27
PLAINTIFF’S DEMAND FOR A JURY TRIAL AND ONGOING JURISDICTION

OF THIS COURT

All of the claims of Plaintiff and members of the Collective are to receive a trial by

jury to the extent allowed by applicable law. This demand has also been endorsed on the

caption of this Complaint in accordance with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 38(b);

This Court should maintain jurisdiction over the instant action to ensure full

compliance with its Orders therein until such time as it is satisfied that its Orders and

dictates have been complied with in full by Defendant.

                                         Respectfully submitted,

                                         WEINSTEIN LAW FIRM, LLC

                                         /s/ Marc E. Weinstein, Esquire
                                         Marc E. Weinstein
                                         Identification No.79474
                                         500 Office Center Drive, Suite 400
                                         Fort Washington, PA 19034
                                         267.513.1942 (tel)
                                         marc@meweinsteinlaw.com

                                         and

                                         PENTIMA LAW FIRM, PLLC

                                         /s/ Vincent J. Pentima, Esquire
                                         Vincent J. Pentima
                                         Identification No. 18523
                                         30 Rock Hill Road
                                         Bala Cynwyd, PA
                                         484.436.2119 (tel)
                                         vjp@pentimalaw.com

Dated:        March 19, 2020


                                           28
