Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/16690514/1/breslow-v-state-street-corp/
Title: Complaint – #1 in BRESLOW v. STATE STREET CORP. (E.D. Pa., 2:20-cv-00212) – CourtListener.com

Case 2:20-cv-00212-TJS Document 1 Filed 01/13/20 Page 1 of 9

Pro Se 1 (Rev. 12/56) Complaint for a Civil Case

KS? UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

for the

as ~” ’ ' é
EASTEAY District of ‘Penns MOA, 6
Division

20 212

(to be filled in by the Clerk's Office)

Case No.

 

Donna & Breslow

Plaintiff{s)
(Write the fill name of each plaintiff who ts filing this complaint.
if the names of all the plaintiffs cannot fit in the space abave,
please write “see attached” in the space and attach an additional
page with the full list af names.)

Yu

Jury Trial: (check one) [_] ves [No

Sante. Street Cor P:

Defendant{s)
(Write the fidl name of each defendant who is being sued. Ef the
names of all the defendants cannot fit in the space above, please
write “see attached” in the space and aitach an additional page
with the fill list of names.)

See ne ee ee ee ee ee ee ee et ree”

COMPLAINT FOR A CIVIL CASE

I. The Parties to This Complaint
A. The Plaintiff(s)

Provide the information below for each plaintiff named in the complaint. Attach additional pages if

 

 

 

 

 

needed.
Name Donna A Bvesio (rae
Street Address Wh §. 49k Sh Apt. 2303
City and County Phi Logle ip wie (County)
State and Zip Code - ‘Pen AS; [en CPA ) LLL6%
Telephone Number VIS Zee s 260 2
E-mail Address Abreslou © Comcast net

 

B. The Defendant(s)
Provide the information below for each defendant named in the complaint, whether the defendant is an

individual, a government agency, an organization, or a corporation. For an individual defendant,
include the person's job or title (ifknown). Attach additional pages 1f needed.

Page lof 5

 
Case 2:20-cv-00212-TJS Document 1 Filed 01/13/20 Page 2 of 9

Pro Se t (Rev. 12/16} Complaint for a Civil Case

Defendant No. 1

Name Stode. Street Core.

 

 

 

 

 

Job or Title (if known) C EO Reon &) al F. a , AIGA jey
Street Address One. Lince la ~Streeet - ‘
City and County aston 4 Ss UAE LK County

State and Zip Code MaSS& chuse Hs OBI
Telephone Number 614+- t6- =H 0 S

 

E-mail Address (if ‘mown

 

Defendant No, 2

Name

 

Job or Title (ifknows)

 

Street Address

 

City and County

 

State and Zip Code

 

Telephone Number

 

E-mail Address (if known)

 

Defendant No. 3

Name

 

Job or Title fifknoawn)

 

Street Address

 

City and County
State and Zip Code

 

 

Telephone Number

 

E-mail Address (known)

 

Defendant No. 4

Name

 

Job or Title (if knawn)
Street Address

 

 

City and County
State and Zip Code

 

 

Telephone Number

 

E-mail Address (if known)

 

Page 2 af 5
Case 2:20-cv-00212-TJS Document 1 Filed 01/13/20 Page 3 of 9

Pro Se 1 (Rev. 12/16) Complaint for a Civil Case

TI,

Basis for Jurisdiction

Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction (limited power). Generally, only two types of cases can be
heard in federal court: cases involving a federal question and cases involving diversity of citizenship of the
parties. Under 28 U.S.C. § 1331, a case arising under the United States Constitution or federal laws or treaties
is a federal question case. Under 28 U.S.C. § 1332, a case in which a citizen of one State sucs a citizen of
another State or nation and the amount at stake is more than $75,000 is a diversity of citizenship case. Ina
diversity of citizenship case, no defendant may be a citizen of the same State as any plaintiff.

What is the’basis for federal court jurisdiction? (check alf that apply)
Federal question [| Diversity of citizenship

Fill out the paragraphs in this section that apply to this case.
A. If the Basis for Jurisdiction Is a Federal Question

List the specific federal statutes, federal treaties, and/or provisions of the United States Constitution that

 

 

 

 

are at issue in this case. act Ste ly
1. Equal Employment OPPO phenity oF (442. medica }
2. PGR Discrimination A Cieployment Act of (46% SEALE Act
= Pome Cans inrde Disabililres prot of” (44o . OF 1743
“. Fever Labor Standards Act ome  gkts
B. __ If the Basis for Jurisdiction Is Diversity of Citizenship ACh
— oF M64
1. The Plaintifi{s)
a. If the plaintiff is an individual
The plaintiff, (mame) , 18 a citizen of the
State of (vame) -
b. If the plaintiff is a corporation
The plaintiff, (namic) _, is incorporated
uuder the laws of the State of game) ;

 

and has its principal place of business in the State of (name)

 

(if more than one plaintiff is named in the complaint, attach an additional page providing the
same information for each additional plaintiff.)

 

2. The Defendant(s)
a. If the defendant is an individual
The defendant, (name) , is a citizen of
the State of (nane} . Or is a citizen of

 

(foreign nation}

 

Page 3 of 5
Case 2:20-cv-00212-TJS Document 1 Filed 01/13/20

Pro Se 1 (Rev. 12/16) Complaint for a Civil Case

b. If the defendant is a corporation

The defendant, fname}

Page 4 of 9

, iS incorporated under

 

the laws of the State of (ame)

, and has its

 

principal place of business in the State of frame)

Or is incorporated under the laws of @areign nation)

 

and has its principal place of business in fname)

 

(ff more than one defendant is named in the complaint, attach an additional page providing the

same information for each additional defendant.)

3, The Amount in Controversy

The amount in controversy—the amount the plaintiff claims the defendant owes or the amount at
stake—is more than $75,000, not counting interest and costs of court, because (explain):

 

TEE. Statement of Claim

Write a short and plain statement of the claim. Do not make legal arguments. State as briefly as possible the
facts showing that each plaintiff is entitled to the damages or other relief sought. State how each defendant was
involved and what each defendant did that caused the plaintiff harm or violated the plaintiff's rights, including
the dates and places of that involvement or conduct. If more than one claim is asserted, number each claim and
write a short and plain statement of each claim in a separate paragraph. Attach additional pages if needed.

See ara Reo
Tmo Cume n+

 

IV. Relief

State briefly and precisely what damages or other relief the plaintiff asks the court to order. Do not make legal
arguments. Include any basis for claiming that the wrongs alleged are continuing at the present time. Include
the amounts of any actual damages claimed for the acts alleged and the basis for these amounts. Include any
punitive or exemplary damages claimed, the amounts, and the reasons you claim you are entitled to actual or

punitive money damages.

SHR. Otho Led

DoCumurt

Page 4 of 5
Case 2:20-cv-00212-TJS Document 1 Filed 01/13/20 Page 5 of 9

Pro Se 1 (Rev. 12/16) Complaint for a Civil Case

 

¥. Certification and Closing

Under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11, by signing below, { certify to the best of my knowledge, information,
and belief that this complaint: (1) is not being presented for an improper purpose, such as to harass, cause
unnecessary delay, or needlessly increase the cost of litigation; (2) is supported by existing law or by a
nonfrivolous argument for extending, modifying, or reversing existing law; (3) the factual contentions have
evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, will likely have evidentiary support after a reasonable
opportunity for further investigation or discovery; and (4) the complaint otherwise complies with the
requirements of Rule 11.

A. For Parties Without an Attorney
I agree to provide the Clerk’s Office with any changes to my address where case—related papers may be

served. I understand that my failure to keep a current address on file with the Clerk’s Office may result
in the dismissal of my case.

Date of signing: Ol lot bo ZO

t

Signature of Plaintiff YL A

Printed Name of Plaintiff Don WAH / . 19 ye < | Ot

 

B. For Attorneys

Date of signing:

 

Signature of Attorney

 

Printed Name of Attorney

 

Bar Number

 

Name of Law Firin
Street Address
State and Zip Code

 

 

 

Telephone Number
E-mail Address

 

 

Page 5 of 5
Case 2:20-cv-00212-TJS Document 1 Filed 01/13/20 Page 6 of 9

III Statement of Claim.
The Plaintiff Donna A. Breslow asserts the following claims against the defendant
State Street Corp.

1. Systematic and routine discrimination in the proper and earned
advancement in position and compensation as a female employee.

2. An environment of sexual harassment where the employee felt wholly unsafe
and often a potential victim of sexual harassment by male superiors.

3. The improper handling of the disability clam of Donna A. Breslow by HR and
direct superiors. Donna A. Breslow is currently suffering from Stage 4 Breast Cancer
with brain and lung involvement, and presently disabled.

IV. Relief

Actual damages:

Advancement withhold (deprived of compensation, both cash, benefits, and
bonus/stock options:
$3,000,000

Improper claiming of Disability Claim:
$300,000

Punitive damage:

Hostile work environment
$3,000,000

Pain and suffering, mental anguish:
$3,000,000

 
Case 2:20-cv-00212-TJS Document 1 Filed 01/13/20 Page 7 of 9

Addendum:

Given the advanced nature of my disease, depositions need to be taken in a swift
timeframe.

 
Case 2:20-cv-00212unu&D DOGS BISTRICFCeWIw/13/20 Page 8 of 9
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA 9 0

A S DESIGNATION FORM 2 I 2
fio be used iy counsel or pro se plaintiff to indicate the category of the case for the purpose of assignment to the appropriate calendar)

Address of Plaintiff: LIZ S. [qt St Apt 3 Phi lagfe Jp A, PA. /G/OE
Address of Defendant: ‘oe Lincaln St Bos Pon , JAA. O21 i [

Place of Accident, Incident or Transaction: Re ic my IA } EA
= /

 

RELATED CASE, IF ANY:
Case Number: Judge: Date Terminated:

Civil cases are deemed related when Yes is answered to any of the following questions:

 

 

1. Is this case related to property included in an earlier numbered suit pending or within one year Yes No} Cf.
previously terminated action in this court?

 

 

 

 

2, Does this case involve the same issue of fact or grow out of the same transaction as a prior suit Yes No
pending or within one year previously terminated action in this court?

 

 

 

 

\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. Does this case involve the validity or infringement of a patent already in suit or any earlier Yes No VA
numbered case pending or within one year previously terminated action of this court?
4, Is this case a second or successive habeas corpus, social security appeal, or pro se civil rights Yes No

 

 

case filed by the same individual?

I certify that, to my knowledge, the within case C1 is / (1 is not related to any case now pending or within one year previously terminated action in

this court except as n¢ted above. De
pate: _ | L zy py: OU {Lh Must sign here
\

Attorney-at-Law / Pro Se Plaintiff Aitorney LD. # (if applicable)

 

 

 

CIVIL: (Place a ¥ in one category only)

 

A Federal Question Cases: B. Diversity Jurisdiction Cases:
LJ] 1. Indemnity Contract, Marine Contract, and All Other Contracts C1 1. Insurance Contract and Other Contracts
[Li 2. FELA fF] 2. Airplane Personal Injury
[-] 3. Jones Act-Personal Injury L.] 3. Assault, Defamation
[] 4. Antitrust [(] 4. Marine Personal Injury

5, Patent L.] 35. Motor Vehicle Personal Injury
Hs Labor-Management Relations L} 6, Other Personal Injury (Please specify):
[] 7. Civil Rights [}] 7. Products Liability
Li 8. Habeas Corpus [] 8. Products Liability - Asbestos
H 9. Securities Act(s) Cases [] 9. All other Diversity Cases

10. Social Security Review Cases (Please specify):
F] 11. Alt other Federal Question Cases

(Piease specify):

 

 

 

 

ARBITRATION CERTIFICATION
(The effect of this certification is io remove the case front eligibility for arbitration.)

TD dink A * B i t5le , counsel of record or pro se plaintiff, do hereby certify:

7 eos to Local Civil Rule 53.2, § 3(c) (2), that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the damages recoverable in this civil action case
exceed the sum of $150,000.00 exclusive of interest and costs:

[|] Relief other than monetary damages is sought. fo—

DATE: ] | ID lo ‘é) ZO Sign here if appticable

Attorney-at-Law / Pro Se Plaintiff Attorney LD. # (if applicable)

NOTE: A trial de novo will be a trial by jury only if there has been compliance with F.R.C.P. 38.

 

Civ, 609 (5/2078)

 
Case 2:20-cv-00212-TJS Document 1 Filed 01/13/20 Page 9 of 9

A 49 IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

CASE MANAGEMENT TRACK DESIGNATION FORM

" Slade. CIVIL ACTION
nner & vst
Reyes love Corp: NO. 2 0 2 1 2

In accordance with the Civil Justice Expense and Delay Reduction Plan of this court, counsel for
plaintiff shall complete a Case Management Track Designation Form in all civil cases at the time of
filing the complaint and serve a copy on all defendants. (See § 1:03 of the pian set forth on the reverse
side of this form.) In the event that a defendant does not agree with the plaintiff regarding said
designation, that defendant shall, with its first appearance, submit to the clerk of court and serve on
the plaintiff and all other parties, a Case Management Track Designation Form specifying the track
to which that defendant believes the case should be assigned.

SELECT ONE OF THE FOLLOWING CASE MANAGEMENT TRACKS:
(a) Habeas Corpus — Cases brought under 28 U.S.C. § 2241 through § 2255. ( )

(b) Social Security — Cases requesting review of a decision of the Secretary of Health
and Human Services denying plaintiff Social Security Benefits. ( )

(c) Arbitration — Cases required to be designated for arbitration under Local Civil Rule 53.2. ( )

(d) Asbestos — Cases involving claims for personal injury or property damage from
exposure to asbestos. ( )

(e) Special Management — Cases that do not fall into tracks (a) through (d) that are
commonly referred to as complex and that need special or intense management by
the court. (See reverse side of this form for a detailed explanation of special

 

 

management cases.) { )
(f) Standard Management — Cases that do not fall into any one of the other tracks. ( Ko
| | 2 bse
Dat¢ / Attorney-at-law Attorney for
2) S-206- 2662 DBEL-534¢- 3237 bve,slov-€- romcasb ne/-
Telephone ¥AX Number E-Mail Address

(Civ. 660) 10/02
