Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/16529816/1/newsome-v-city-of-philadelphia/
Title: Complaint – #1 in NEWSOME v. CITY OF PHILADELPHIA (E.D. Pa., 2:19-cv-05590) – CourtListener.com

Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 1 of 42
Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 2 of 42
Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 3 of 42
         Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 4 of 42




DEREK SMITH LAW GROUP, PLLC
IAN M. BRYSON, ESQUIRE
Attorney ID No. 321359
1835 Market Street, Suite 2950
Philadelphia, PA 19103
(215) 391-4790
ian@dereksmithlaw.com
Attorneys for Plaintiff and the Proposed Class

                 IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
                       EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA
________________________________________________
                                                         :
JANELLE NEWSOME,                                         : Civil Action No.
individually and on behalf of others similarly situated, :
                                                         : COLLECTIVE ACTION
                              Plaintiff,                 : COMPLAINT FOR
                                                         : DECLARATORY JUDGMENT,
       v.                                                : INJUNCTIVE RELIEF and
                                                         : DAMAGES
CITY OF PHILADELPHIA,                                    :
                                                         :
                              Defendant.                 :
________________________________________________:

                                 NATURE OF THE ACTION
   1. Plaintiff Janelle Newsome brings this suit individually and on behalf of all others

       similarly situated as a collective action seeking all available relief under the Fair Labor

       Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq. (“FLSA”) contending that the

       Philadelphia Police Department has systematically and willfully failed to provide nursing

       female police officers with “reasonable break time to express breast milk for their nursing

       children for 1 year after the child’s birth each time such employee has need to express the

       milk,” and has further failed to provide “a place, other than a bathroom, that is shielded

       from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and the public, which may be used by

       employees to express breast milk.” 29 U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(A) and (B).




                                                 1
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 5 of 42




2. Plaintiff also brings this action for personal relief from sex discrimination in violation of

   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq. (“Title VII”) and

   Section 1983 of the Civil Rights Act of 1871, 42 U.S.C. § 1983 (“Section 1983”).

3. Plaintiff seeks injunctive and declaratory relief, compensatory damages, punitive

   damages, liquidated damages, statutory penalties, reasonable attorneys’ fees, litigation

   costs and pre- and post-judgment interest as remedies for Defendant’s violations of her

   rights.

                                         PARTIES
4. Plaintiff Janelle Newsome (“Ms. Newsome”) is an adult individual resident of

   Philadelphia County and a citizen of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Pursuant to

   Section 216(b) of the FLSA, Plaintiff has consented in writing to be a party in this action.

   Her executed Consent to Sue form is attached hereto as Exhibit “A.”

5. Defendant City of Philadelphia (“the City”) is a municipality of the Commonwealth of

   Pennsylvania. The City owns, operates, manages, directs and controls the Philadelphia

   Police Department (“the PPD”), whose agents, servants and employees at all relevant

   times were acting within the course and scope of their employment under color of state

   law and operating pursuant to official policies, customs or practices of the City and the

   PPD.

6. Plaintiff was an “employee” and Defendant was an “employer” covered by the FLSA and

   Title VII and was required to comply with the mandates therein.

7. Defendant systematically and willfully failed to satisfy the requirements of the FLSA,

   Title VII and Section 1983.




                                              2
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 6 of 42




    EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES UNDER TITLE VII
8. Ms. Newsome timely filed charges of discrimination with the U.S. Equal Employment

   Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission

   (“PHRC”) alleging violations of Title VII the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, 43

   P.S. §§ 951-963 (“PHRA”), and the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance, Philadelphia

   Code §§ 9-1101 et seq. (“PFPO”).

9. EEOC issued Ms. Newsome a Notice of Right to Sue Within 90 Days. Ms. Newsome has

   timely filed this action and has complied with all administrative prerequisites to bring this

   lawsuit.

10. Ms. Newsome’s PHRA and PFPO claims are still pending before PHRC because less

   than one year has elapsed since PHRC assumed jurisdiction over her charges. After one

   year, Ms. Newsome will seek leave to amend this complaint to assert her PHRA and

   PFPO claims.

                            JURISDICTION AND VENUE
11. This Court has jurisdiction over this lawsuit pursuant to 28 U.S.C § 1331 because it

   involves questions of federal law under Title VII, Section 1983 and the FLSA.

12. Venue in this Court is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b) because a substantial part of the

   acts or omissions giving rise to the claims alleged herein occurred within this judicial

   district, and Defendant is subject to personal jurisdiction here.

13. This Court is empowered to issue a declaratory judgment pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 2201

   and 2202.

                  FLSA COLLECTIVE ACTION ALLEGATIONS
14. The PPD employs over 6300 sworn members, approximately 35% of which are women.

   There are eleven different ranks in the PPD in the following order, beginning at the entry
                                             3
 Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 7 of 42




level position of Police Officer and ending with Police Commissioner: (1) Police Officer;

(2) Detective; (3) Corporal; (4) Sergeant; (5) Lieutenant; (6) Captain; (7) Staff Inspector;

(8) Inspector; (9) Chief Inspector; (10) Deputy Commissioner; and (11) Commissioner.

The City’s Office of Human Resources provides the following job class specification for

Police Officer:

GENERAL DEFINITION

This is general duty police work on an assigned shift involving the protection of
life and property, enforcement of laws, and investigation of crimes. Work is
performed under the supervision of a police officer of higher rank. The employee
has a controlling impact on the prevention of crime within an assigned area. Work
requires regular exposure to uncontrolled and/or unpredictable conditions and the
frequent exercise of moderate physical effort. The essential functions and tasks
required for the position of police officer, include, but are not limited to,
qualification and use of firearms, patrolling and apprehension of suspects.
Employees in this class must also comply with Commonwealth municipal police
officer certification requirements

ALLOCATING FACTORS

Positions in this class must be able to perform the essential and physical functions
of the job.

TYPICAL EXAMPLES OF WORK

Patrols a designated area of the city, on foot, bicycle, segway or horseback, or in a
car, motorcycle, or police boat to prevent and discover the commission of crime
and to enforce traffic and parking regulations; answers calls and complaints, taking
the necessary police action.

Takes proper police action at scene of crime, administers first aid, gathers evidence,
locates witnesses and makes arrest; appears in court to present evidence and testify
against persons accused of crimes.

Investigates persons suspected of being engaged in gambling, illegal sale of liquors,
or other vice activities; checks the operation of taverns, poolrooms, dance halls,
clubs, and similar establishments for compliance with laws and ordinances.

Ascertains validity of information or secures evidence for the arrest of persons
alleged to have committed a crime; searches for and preserves evidence; interviews
suspects, prisoners, complainants, and witnesses, takes information or secures

                                          4
 Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 8 of 42




evidence for the arrest of persons alleged to have committed a crime; searches for
and preserves evidence; interviews suspects, prisoners, complainants and witnesses
to obtain information about crimes; reports automobile accidents, interviews
witnesses, takes information, and makes detailed reports.

Investigates complaints concerning juveniles; discusses the case with complainant,
juvenile, parents and others who may be able to aid in the case; investigates crimes
by and against juveniles; testifies in court concerning case, visits neighborhood
boys’ clubs and recreation centers, counseling leaders on juvenile problems.

Writes detailed reports of automobile accidents in cases where personal injuries or
property damage is apparent.

Works with community residents, business owners and other City employees to
solve problems of crime and disorder.

Performs all duties and responsibilities at the highest level of personal and
professional ethics.

Uses computer systems to identify crime patterns, analyzes the nature of crime and
disorders, problems and obtains information relevant to crime control and
prevention.

May serve in the district operations office to perform necessary clerical procedures
connected with police work.

Performs related work as required.

REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES

KNOWLEDGE OF:
   •   the use, care and safe handling of firearms and other equipment used in the
       performance of essential tasks;
   •   the laws controlling, and the procedures, practices and techniques necessary
       to police patrol operations;
   •   the laws, codes, statutes and regulations concerning criminal activity,
       especially when they apply to law enforcement operations;
   •   the criminal justice system as it applies to law enforcement operations;
   •   the techniques, practice and procedures necessary to the effective
       interaction with the general public, victims, suspects, and officers of other
       agencies and municipalities; and
   •   duty manuals, departmental organizations, administrative direction and
       applicable City ordinances.
SKILL IN:


                                         5
 Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 9 of 42




     •   the use and care of firearms and other equipment used in the performance
         of essential tasks
ABILITY TO:
     •   cope with situations firmly, courteously, tactfully and with respect for the
         rights of others;
     •   analyze situations quickly and objectively, and to determine a proper course
         of action to be taken;
     •   understand and carry out oral and written instructions;
     •   write and speak effectively;
     •   learn clerical procedures connected with police work;
     •   make arrests;
     •   take necessary police action to prevent the commission of a crime, including
         use of a firearm where needed;
     •   patrol streets on foot;
     •   respond to emergency situations;
     •   use firearms and other weapons as needed;
     •   operate equipment in the performance of essential tasks;
     •   perform the essential and physical functions of the job;
     •   identify, analyze and respond to crime and disorder problems; and
     •   use computer systems to obtain necessary information in the performance
         of the position.
MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE

For employees hired from eligible lists for Police Officer Recruit initially
established before 2012:

EDUCATION: Education equivalent to standard high school.

AND

TRAINING: Recent successful completion of training as a Police Officer Recruit
at the City of Philadelphia Police Academy.

OR

CERTIFICATION: Possession of Pennsylvania Municipal Police Officers’
Certification from the Pennsylvania Municipal Police Officers Education and
Training Commission prior to appointment and during tenure of employment as a
Police Officer 1.

For employees hired from eligible lists for Police Officer Recruit initially
established during or after 2012 or from Police Officer 1 eligible lists initially
established during or after 2011:


                                          6
 Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 10 of 42




Option 1

TRAINING: Recent successful completion of training as a Police Officer Recruit
at the City of Philadelphia Police Academy.

OR

Option 2

EDUCATION: Education equivalent to completion of a standard high school.

AND

EXPERIENCE: One year of full time employment as a commonwealth or state
certified Law Enforcement Officer which has been within the three year period
immediately prior to the thirtieth (30) day after the last date for filing applications
for the examination for this class.

AND

CERTIFICATION: Possession of a commonwealth or state Law Enforcement
Officers’ Certification.

PHYSICAL AND MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS

Ability to meet the physical and medical standards approved for this class.

Age—Must have reached Nineteenth (19th) Birthday as of the date of appointment.

LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS AND/OR CERTIFICATES

Possession of Pennsylvania Municipal Police Officers’ Certification from the
Pennsylvania Municipal Police Officers Education and Training Commission prior
to appointment and during tenure of employment as a Police Officer 1.

Initial and annual qualification on a police firearms course, by a certified police
firearms instructor, with any firearms, shotguns, rifles authorized for use including
personal weapons carried in lieu of issued weapons or as a second weapon.

Possession of a valid proper class motor vehicle operator's license as issued by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania within 60 days of establishing Pennsylvania
residency and during tenure of employment as a Police Officer 1.
Preferred License

Possession of a valid proper class motor vehicle operator's license from any state at
least three years prior to appointment as a Police Officer 1.

                                          7
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 11 of 42




   See City of Philadelphia Office of Human Resources Personnel Job Class Specifications,
   Police Officer 1, https://www.phila.gov/personnel/specs/6A02.htm

15. Pursuant to 29 U.S.C. §§ 216(b) and 207(r) of the FLSA, Ms. Newsome brings this action

   individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated female Police Officers employed

   by the PPD during the past three years who were denied their rights under the FLSA’s

   “Break Time for Nursing Mothers” provision, which requires employers to provide (1)

   “reasonable break time for an employee to express breast milk for her nursing child for 1

   year after the child’s birth each time such employee has need to express the milk”; and

   (2) “a place, other than a bathroom, that is shielded from view and free from intrusion

   from coworkers and the public, which may be used by an employee to express breast

   milk.” 29 U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(A) and (B).

16. The members of the putative class are hereinafter referred to as “Collective Class

   Plaintiffs.”

17. Plaintiff estimates that there are in excess of 500 other similarly situated Collective Class

   Plaintiffs who are working or worked for the PPD and are or were unlawfully denied

   their rights under the FLSA’s Break Time for Nursing Mothers provision, 29 U.S.C. §

   207(r). The precise number of employees can be easily ascertained by Defendant. These

   employees can be identified and located using Defendant’s payroll and personnel records.

   Potential Collective Class Plaintiffs may be informed of the pendency of this Collective

   Action by direct mail and/or publication.

18. Pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 216(b), this action is properly maintained as a collective action

   because all class members are similarly situated. Plaintiff and other similarly situated

   female Police Officers (1) were similarly denied reasonable break time to express breast

   milk for their nursing children for 1 year after birth each time they needed to, and also

                                              8
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 12 of 42




   denied a private place, other than a bathroom, to do so; (2) had the same or substantially

   similar job classifications and duties; and (3) were subject to the same uniform policies,

   business practices, payroll practices, and operating procedures.

19. Further, Defendant’s willful policies and practices, which are discussed more fully below,

   whereby Defendant denied Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs their rights under the

   FLSA’s Break Time for Nursing Mothers provision, have affected Plaintiff and

   Collective Class Plaintiffs in the same fashion.

20. In violation of the FLSA, Defendant failed to provide Plaintiff and Collective Class

   Plaintiffs “reasonable break time to express breast milk for [their] nursing child[ren] for 1

   year after the child’s birth each time such employee has need to express the milk.” 29

   U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(A) and (B).

21. In violation of the FLSA, Defendant also failed to provide “a place, other than a

   bathroom, that is shielded from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and the

   public, which may be used by [Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs] to express breast

   milk.” 29 U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(B).

22. This policy and practice is unequivocal evidence of Defendant’s systematic, willful and

   improper failure to follow the provisions of the FLSA.

23. Plaintiff will request the Court to authorize notice to all current and former similarly

   situated female Police Officers employed by the PPD in the last three years to inform

   them of the pendency of this action and their right to “opt in” to this lawsuit pursuant to

   29 U.S.C. § 216(b) for the purpose of seeking actual damages, liquidated damages,

   attorneys’ fees, litigation costs, declaratory relief, employment consistent with the FLSA,

   and all other relief available.



                                              9
    Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 13 of 42




                              FACTUAL BACKGROUND
24. Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

25. On December 22, 2014, Ms. Newsome started working for the PPD as a Police Officer

   assigned to the 18th District.

26. In July 2018, Ms. Newsome gave birth to her child.

27. In January 2019, Ms. Newsome returned to work from leave and was detailed to the

   PPD’s Neighborhood Services Unit (“NSU”) on restricted duty. She was still nursing her

   infant child and expected to do so until her child reached age 1 in July 2019.

28. Upon returning to work, Ms. Newsome experienced ongoing pregnancy discrimination

   regarding her need to express milk at work.

29. Defendant denied Ms. Newsome reasonable break time to express breast milk for her

   nursing child for 1 year after the child’s birth each time she had the need to express the

   milk.

30. Defendant also denied Ms. Newsome a private place, other than a bathroom, that was

   shielded from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and the public that she could

   use to express breast milk.

31. The PPD has no policy or directive in place to provide basic accommodations for

   breastfeeding mothers like Ms. Newsome.

32. The PPD does not provide accommodations for nursing mothers like Ms. Newsome—it

   does not provide time for women to express milk, nor does it provide private space that is

   not a bathroom each time women need to pump.

33. As a result, women employed by the PPD are kept unaware and deprived of their

   statutory civil rights.



                                            10
    Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 14 of 42




34. When Ms. Newsome arrived to NSU, she informed her supervisor, Sergeant Herbert

   Gibbons, that she would need to pump at work and that she would “try to only do it once

   per day.” Because the PPD does not provide accommodations for nursing mothers,

   Sergeant Gibbons failed to apprise Ms. Newsome of her right to take time to express

   milk, nor did he apprise her of her right to a private space (that is not a bathroom) each

   time she needed to pump. Rather, Sergeant Gibbons stated, “We’ll figure something out,”

   and at no time thereafter did Sergeant Gibbons provide accommodations for Ms.

   Newsome.

35. As a result, Ms. Newsome did not have a private, sanitary space that was regularly

   available and free from interruptions from coworkers; and she was forced to pump at

   irregular times or not at all.

36. For example, Ms. Newsome attempted to pump in an office that was frequently used by

   the building’s all-male tech crew, who often told her “we’re going to be in here for a

   while,” forcing her to pump in the restroom or not pump at all. Occasionally, when the

   room was vacant, Ms. Newsome was often interrupted by the all-male tech crew who

   would knock on the door and ask, “When are you going to be done” and wait outside

   until she came out.

37. On another occasion Sergeant Gibbons instructed Ms. Newsome and another nursing

   mother—Officer Jennifer Allen—to “pump in Officer John Whipple’s office.” The same

   day, or shortly thereafter, Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen were asked by another police

   officer, Officer Darden, “Were you notified that you had to start pumping in Mary’s (a

   civilian coworker) office?” Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen had not been notified of this




                                            11
    Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 15 of 42




   change. Officer Darden further stated, “You should pump at the same time in the same

   room.”

38. Upon hearing this, Ms. Newsome became concerned that her supervisors and coworkers

   did not support her need to pump at work and that her ability to do so was in jeopardy.

   Ms. Newsome and other nursing mothers rely on a positive, accepting attitude from

   supervisors and coworkers to feel confident in the ability to continue working while

   breastfeeding. Ms. Newsome and other nursing mothers also rely on consistent

   availability of a private space to pump. These accommodations are not provided by the

   PPD.

39. On another occasion, another police officer, Officer Martin, told Ms. Newsome and

   Officer Allen that “people need to get into the office you’re pumping in during the time

   that you pump,” and directed them to “pump in Mary’s office from now on.”

40. On another occasion, Sergeant Gibbons called Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen into his

   office and stated, “You are to put the sign (a sign they hung on the door while they were

   pumping to notify others the room was in use) back in my office after each use.” Sergeant

   Gibbons further stated that he “doesn’t want to hear Mary making a big fuss about the

   sign,” and that he “wants to avoid hearing her mouth.” This arrangement required Ms.

   Newsome and Officer Allen to retrieve the privacy sign from an office occupied by three

   male officers each and every time they needed to pump and return the sign to the three

   male officers each and every time they were finished. Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen

   found this arrangement to be extremely demeaning.

41. On another occasion, Ms. Newsome, Officer Allen and Officer Tanya Richardson

   approached Sergeant Gibbons about their coworkers’ frequent interruptions and negative



                                           12
    Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 16 of 42




   comments regarding their need to express milk at work. They requested that Sergeant

   Gibbons address the issue with their coworkers. In response, Sergeant Gibbons stated, “I

   won’t address it with anyone because I would be kicked out of the unit.” He further

   stated, “Anytime I have spoken up before I was backstabbed and given 18’s

   (disciplined).” These frequent negative interactions regarding Ms. Newsome’s and

   Officer Allen’s rights caused both women to cry at work on several occasions.

42. On another occasion, Ms. Newsome told Sergeant Gibbons, “I do not feel comfortable

   with the procedure of getting the privacy sign from you because I have to walk into an

   office with three male officers, ask them for the sign, and then walk back into the same

   office to return it to them. It makes me feel uncomfortable.” Officer Allen agreed.

43. Later that day, Sergeant Gibbons called Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen into the break

   room and stated, “Effective immediately you will pump in Mary’s office, a permanent

   sign will be made that will hang on the door, and you will each have keys to the office.

   You can pump whenever you want to.” This conversation occurred in late-April 2019,

   approximately 4 months after Ms. Newsome had returned to work from leave.

44. Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen asked Sergeant Gibbons “if Mary had been notified that

   we were to pump in her office,” and Sergeant Gibbons said “yes.”

45. However, when Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen attempted to use Mary’s office, Mary

   stated, “I have work to do, you have to use another office.”

46. Officer Allen informed Sergeant Gibbons that “Mary said we can’t use her office,” and

   Sergeant Gibbons responded, “she has to,” but took no further action to remedy the

   situation. He did not provide Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen with keys or a permanent




                                           13
    Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 17 of 42




   sign as he had promised. He did not instruct Mary to allow the women to pump in her

   office.

47. Later, Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen again complained to Sergeant Gibbons that they

   had not been given the basic accommodations that he had promised . Ms. Newsome

   stated, “You said provisions would be made for us.” In response, Sergeant Gibbons said,

   “By law, I only have to give you 10 minutes.” Ms. Newsome responded, “10 minutes is

   not long enough to begin the flow of milk—it could take me up to 30 minutes.” Sergeant

   Gibbons changed the subject and took no further action to accommodate her needs.

48. Around April 29, 2019, Ms. Newsome and Officer Allen were instructed to pump in the

   building’s lunch room during lunch hour. That day, while Ms. Newsome was attempting

   to use the lunch room to pump, coworkers started gathering outside, knocking on the door

   and asking, “What’s going on in there?”

49. When Ms. Newsome opened the door to the lunch room, one employee who had been

   waiting outside said “FINALLY” and groaned before entering the room. The employee

   then asked Ms. Newsome, “Can I come in when you’re pumping because I’m a woman?”

50. The PPD is responsible for alerting employees about the employer’s worksite lactation

   program (which the PPD does not have) and for negotiating policies and practices to help

   facilitate each employee’s infant feeding goals. Defendant failed to meet these

   requirements.

51. The PPD is responsible for knowing exactly how to support employees like Ms.

   Newsome, including educating all staff about the importance of respecting a coworker’s

   privacy while pumping and providing coverage during lactation breaks. Defendant failed

   to meet these requirements.



                                           14
    Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 18 of 42




52. The PPD is responsible for ensuring that all employees will assist in providing a positive

   atmosphere of support for breastfeeding employees like Ms. Newsome. Defendant failed

   to meet these requirements.

53. The PPD’s ongoing failure to provide Ms. Newsome with consistent, private and sanitary

   lactation space caused her extreme anxiety and uncertainty about her ability to continue

   breastfeeding her child. Breastfeeding and working takes a lot of time, coordination and

   dedication from a mother. A lactation space is necessary because in order to begin the

   flow of milk, mothers must be able to sit down and relax, and not be stressed. Mothers

   such as Ms. Newsome who are placed in an open or uncomfortable space, or who are

   worried about hostility from coworkers, may not be able to pump milk or may not be able

   to pump milk as quickly.

54. As a result of the PPD’s failure to designate private, sanitary rooms for nursing

   employees like Ms. Newsome to express breast milk at work, Ms. Newsome was forced

   to stop pumping at work altogether. For the next several months she could only pump at

   nighttime when she arrived home from work.

55. On several occasions, Ms. Newsome was forced to take sick leave to pump at home.

56. Officer Allen also was forced to stop pumping at work and took leave to pump at home.

57. Section 4207 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which amended Section

   7 of the FLSA, 29 U.S.C. § 207, requires employers to provide “reasonable break time

   for an employee to express breast milk for her nursing child for 1 year after the child’s

   birth each time such employee has need to express the milk.” 29 U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(A).

   The law further requires employers to provide “a place, other than a bathroom, that is




                                            15
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 19 of 42




   shielded from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and the public, which may be

   used by an employee to express breast milk.” 29 U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(B).

58. The FLSA and the “Break Time for Nursing Mothers” provision cover all public agency

   employees of a State, a political subdivision of a State, or an interstate government

   agency. 29 U.S.C. § 203(s)(1)(C). Federal law does not preempt “a State law that

   provides greater protections to employees than the protections provided for under [the

   federal law].” 29 U.S.C. 207(r)(4).

59. The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance (the “PFPO”) expands on the federal

   protections under the FLSA. Under the PFPO, “it shall be an unlawful employment

   practice to deny or interfere with the employment opportunities of an individual based

   upon . . . her . . . sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition), . . .

   including, but not limited to . . . fail[ing] to reasonably accommodate an individual’s need

   to express breast milk. Reasonable accommodations include providing unpaid break time

   or allowing an employee to use paid break, mealtime, or both, to express milk and

   providing a private, sanitary space that is not a bathroom where an employee can express

   breast milk . . .” Phila. Code § 9-1103(1)(m)(i).

60. The PPD failed to provide these basic accommodations to Plaintiff and Collective Class

   Plaintiffs. None of the PPD’s 21 police districts provide accommodations for nursing

   mothers: women are forced to express milk in unsanitary bathrooms that are often

   extremely hot or extremely cold and infested with roaches and mice.

61. Plaintiff’s and Collective Class Plaintiffs’ job duties are the same and generally include:

   patrolling designated areas of the city on foot, bicycle, segway, horseback, car,

   motorcycle, or police boat to prevent and discover the commission of crimes and traffic



                                              16
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 20 of 42




   and parking violations; answering calls and complaints; and taking the necessary police

   action (in addition to other duties specified in paragraph 14 above).

62. Throughout Plaintiff’s and Collective Class Plaintiffs’ employment with Defendant,

   Defendant failed to provide Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs “reasonable break

   time to express breast milk for [their] nursing child[ren] for 1 year after the child’s birth

   each time such employee has need to express the milk.” 29 U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(A) and

   (B).

63. Moreover, throughout Plaintiff’s and Collective Class Plaintiffs’ employment with

   Defendant, Defendant failed to provide “a place, other than a bathroom, that is shielded

   from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and the public, which may be used by

   [Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs] to express breast milk.” 29 U.S.C. §

   207(r)(1)(B).

64. Violations of Plaintiff’s and Collective Class Plaintiffs’ federally protected rights were

   the result of official policy: the City, the PPD, and their policymaking officials (1)

   directed that the violations of occur; (2) authorized the violations; (3) agreed to

   subordinates’ decisions to engage in the violations; (4) provided inadequate training; (5)

   provided inadequate supervision; and (6) failed to adopt needed policies to prevent the

   violations.

65. Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs were and are, within the meaning of the FLSA,

   non-exempt employees of Defendant and therefore entitled to the statutorily mandated

   protections of the FLSA’s Break Time for Nursing Mothers provision.

66. Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs were “employees” of Defendant as defined by the

   FLSA.



                                             17
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 21 of 42




67. As a result of Defendant’s violations of the law, Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs

   were subjected to employment inconsistent with the FLSA.

68. Defendant threatened to discipline any employee who questioned its unlawful practices.

69. As a result, Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs have suffered damages.

                                       COUNT I
      VIOLATIONS OF FLSA PROTECTIONS FOR NURSING MOTHERS
                                  29 U.S.C. § 207(r)
      Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs v. Defendant City of Philadelphia
70. Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

71. Section 4207 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”), which

   amended Section 7 of the FLSA, 29 U.S.C. § 207, requires employers to provide

   “reasonable break time for an employee to express breast milk for her nursing child for 1

   year after the child’s birth each time such employee has need to express the milk.” 29

   U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(A).

72. The law further requires employers to provide “a place, other than a bathroom, that is

   shielded from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and the public, which may be

   used by an employee to express breast milk.” 29 U.S.C. § 207(r)(1)(B).

73. The FLSA and the “Break Time for Nursing Mothers” provision cover all public agency

   employees of a State, a political subdivision of a State, or an interstate government

   agency. 29 U.S.C. § 203(s)(1)(C).

74. The FLSA defines “employer” as “any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest

   of an employer in relation to an employee, including individual supervisors and

   management officials. 29 U.S.C. § 203(d).

75. Defendant violated Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs’ rights under the FLSA by (1)

   failing to provide reasonable break time for Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs to

                                             18
         Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 22 of 42




        “express breast milk for her nursing child for 1 year after the child’s birth each time she

        had a need to express the milk”; and (2) failing to provide Plaintiff and Collective Class

        Plaintiffs “a place, other than a bathroom, that is shielded from view and free from

        intrusion from coworkers and the public, which may be used to express breast milk.”

    76. The foregoing actions, policies and practices of Defendant violate the FLSA.

    77. Defendant’s actions were willful, in bad faith and in reckless disregard of clearly

        applicable FLSA provisions.

    78. Defendant is liable to Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs for actual damages,

        liquidated damages and other relief, pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 216(b), as well as reasonable

        attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff prays for the following relief on behalf of herself and Collective

Class Plaintiffs:

    a. An Order from this Court permitting this litigation to proceed as a collective action
       pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 216(b);

    b. An Order from this Court ordering Defendant to file with this Court and furnish to the
       undersigned counsel a list of all names and addresses of all female Police Officers who
       have worked for Defendant during the preceding three years, and authorizing Plaintiff’s
       counsel to issue a notice at the earliest possible time to these individuals, informing them
       that this action has been filed, of the nature of the action, and of their right to opt in to
       this lawsuit if they worked for Defendant during the liability period, but were denied their
       rights under the Break Time for Nursing Mothers provision of the FLSA;

    c. Adjudicating and declaring that Defendant’s conduct as set forth herein and above is in
       violation of the FLSA;

    d. Adjudicating and declaring that Defendant violated the FLSA by failing to provide
       reasonable break time and private, sanitary lactation space for nursing mothers;

    e. Awarding Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs damages in an amount consistent with
       the FLSA;




                                                 19
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 23 of 42




f. Awarding Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs liquidated damages in accordance with
   the FLSA;

g. Awarding Plaintiff reasonable attorneys’ fees and all costs of this action, to be paid by
   Defendant, in accordance with the FLSA;

h. Awarding pre- and post-judgment interest and court costs as further allowed by law;

i. Granting Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs leave to add additional plaintiffs by
   motion, the filing of written opt in consent forms, or any other method approved by the
   Court; and

j. For all additional general and equitable relief to which Plaintiff and Collective Class
   Plaintiffs are entitled.
                                      COUNT II
                                FLSA RETALIATION
                                    29 U.S.C. § 215
      Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs v. Defendant City of Philadelphia
79. Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

80. The FLSA prohibits retaliation by employers against employees for asserting their rights

   under the Act. 29 U.S.C. § 215(a)(3).

81. Defendant violated the FLSA’s anti-relation provision when it took materially adverse

   employment actions against Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs for asserting their

   rights under the Break Time for Nursing Mothers law.

82. As a result of Defendant’s violations of the FLSA, Plaintiff and Collective Class

   Plaintiffs have suffered damages, including, but not limited to: loss of employment,

   diminishment of career opportunities, past and future lost wages, reputational harm, pain

   and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation,

   emotional distress, and other harm, both tangible and intangible.

83. The foregoing actions, policies and practices of Defendant violate the FLSA.

84. Defendant’s actions were willful, in bad faith and in reckless disregard of clearly

   applicable FLSA provisions.

                                            20
         Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 24 of 42




    85. Defendant is liable to Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs for actual damages,

        liquidated damages and other relief, pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 216(b), as well as reasonable

        attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff prays for the following relief on behalf of herself and Collective

Class Plaintiffs:

    a. An Order from this Court permitting this litigation to proceed as a collective action
       pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 216(b);

    b. An Order from this Court ordering Defendant to file with this Court and furnish to the
       undersigned counsel a list of all names and addresses of all female Police Officers who
       have worked for Defendant during the preceding three years, and authorizing Plaintiff’s
       counsel to issue a notice at the earliest possible time to these individuals, informing them
       that this action has been filed, of the nature of the action, and of their right to opt in to
       this lawsuit if they worked for Defendant during the liability period, but were denied their
       rights under the Break Time for Nursing Mothers provision of the FLSA;

    c. Adjudicating and declaring that Defendant’s conduct as set forth herein and above is in
       violation of the FLSA;

    d. Adjudicating and declaring that Defendant violated the FLSA by retaliating against
       employees who asserted their rights to reasonable break time and private, sanitary
       lactation space;

    e. Awarding Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs damages in an amount consistent with
       the FLSA;

    f. Awarding Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs liquidated damages in accordance with
       the FLSA;

    g. Awarding Plaintiff reasonable attorneys’ fees and all costs of this action, to be paid by
       Defendant, in accordance with the FLSA;

    h. Awarding pre- and post-judgment interest and court costs as further allowed by law;

    i. Granting Plaintiff and Collective Class Plaintiffs leave to add additional plaintiffs by
       motion, the filing of written opt in consent forms, or any other method approved by the
       Court; and

    j. For all additional general and equitable relief to which Plaintiff and Collective Class
       Plaintiffs are entitled.

                                                 21
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 25 of 42




                                      COUNT III
                        TITLE VII DISPARATE TREATMENT
                                  42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2
             Plaintiff Janelle Newsome v. Defendant City of Philadelphia
86. Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

87. Title VII provides, in relevant part, that “it shall be an unlawful employment practice for

   an employer . . . to discriminate against any individual with respect to [her]

   compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of [her] race,

   color, religion, sex, or national origin.” 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(a)(1).

88. Title VII further provides that “it shall be an unlawful employment practice for any

   employer . . . controlling . . . training or retraining, including on-the-job training

   programs to discriminate against any individual because of [her] race, color, religion, sex,

   or national origin in admission to, or employment in, any program established to provide

   . . . training.” 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(d).

89. In 1978, Congress enacted the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, 92 Stat. 2076, which added

   new language to Title VII’s definitions subsection to specify that Title VII’s “ter[m]

   ‘because of sex’ . . . include[s] . . . because of or on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, or

   related medical conditions.; and women affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related

   medical conditions shall be treated the same for all employment-related purposes . . . as

   other persons not so affected but similar in their ability or inability to work.” 42 U.S.C. §

   2000e(k); Young v. United Parcel Serv., Inc., 135 S. Ct. 1344-45 (2015) (explaining “that

   the denial of an accommodation constituted disparate treatment under the Pregnancy

   Discrimination Act.”).

90. Title VII further provides that “un unlawful employment practice is established when the

   complaining party demonstrates that race, color, religion, sex, or national origin was a


                                              22
     Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 26 of 42




   motivating factor for any employment practice, even though other factors also motivated

   the practice.” 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2(m).

91. The City engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by Title VII by

   intentionally discriminating against Plaintiff with respect to her compensation, terms,

   conditions, training and privileges of employment because of her sex and pregnancy.

92. The City subjected Plaintiff to adverse tangible employment actions—defined as

   significant changes in Plaintiff’s employment status, discipline, denial of training, failure

   to promote, reassignment with significantly different job responsibilities, and decisions

   causing changes in significant changes in her employment benefits.

93. Plaintiff’s protected characteristics (sex and pregnancy) played a determinative factor in

   the City’s decisions.

94. The City cannot show any legitimate nondiscriminatory reasons for its employment

   practices and any reasons proffered by the City for its actions against Plaintiff are

   pretextual and can readily be disbelieved.

95. Alternatively, Plaintiff’s protected status played a motivating part in the City’s decisions

   even if other factors may also have motivated its actions against Plaintiff.

96. The City acted with the intent to discriminate.

97. The City acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

98. As a result of the City’s violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including,

   but not limited to: past and future lost wages, pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental

   anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress, reputational harm,

   diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible and intangible.




                                             23
           Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 27 of 42




    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Janelle Newsome demands judgment against Defendant City of

Philadelphia and prays for the following relief: (1) an award of compensatory damages in an

amount consistent with Title VII; (2) an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of this

action in accordance with Title VII; (3) an award of pre- and post-judgment interest and court

costs as further allowed by law; (4) an adjudication and declaration that the City’s conduct as set

forth herein is in violation of Title VII; and (5) all additional general and equitable relief to

which Plaintiff is entitled.

                                           COUNT IV
                       TITLE VII HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT
                                       42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2
                  Plaintiff Janelle Newsome v. Defendant City of Philadelphia
    99. Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

    100.         Title VII also prohibits hostile work environment harassment, defined as

        unwanted comments or conduct regarding the plaintiff’s protected characteristics that

        have the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with the terms and conditions of

        the plaintiff’s employment. Harris v. Forklift Systems, 510 U.S. 17, 21 (1993).

    101.         An employer is strictly liable for supervisor harassment that “culminates in a

        tangible employment action, such as discharge, demotion, or undesirable reassignment.”

        Burlington Industries, Inc. v. Ellerth, 524 U.S. 742 (1998).

    102.         Respondeat superior liability for the acts of non-supervisory employees exists

        where “the defendant knew or should have known of the harassment and failed to take

        prompt remedial action. Andrews v. City of Philadelphia, 895 F.2d 1469, 1486 (3d Cir.

        1990).




                                                  24
       Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 28 of 42




103.       Employer liability for co-worker harassment also exists where “the employer

   failed to provide a reasonable avenue for complaint.” Huston v. Procter & Gamble Paper

   Prods. Corp., 568 F.3d 100, 105 (3d Cir. 2009).

104.       Here, Defendant’s conduct occurred because of Plaintiff’s legally protected

   characteristics and was severe or pervasive enough to make a reasonable nursing mother

   believe that the conditions of employment were altered, and that the working

   environment was intimidating, hostile or abusive.

105.       The harassing conduct directly refers to Plaintiff’s sex traits and pregnancy.

106.       The City delegated to Plaintiff’s supervisors the authority to control the work

   environment and they abused that authority to create a hostile work environment.

107.       Harassing conduct based on Plaintiff’s sex and pregnancy filled the environment

   of Plaintiff’s work area.

108.       The City knew that the harassing conduct filled Plaintiff’s work environment.

109.       Harassing conduct occurred daily.

110.       Harassing conduct caused Plaintiff to sustain severe emotional distress resulting

   in physical illness and serious psychological sequelae.

111.       Plaintiff subjectively regarded the harassing conduct as unwelcome and unwanted

   and objectively opposed the conduct.

112.       The conduct was both severe and pervasive.

113.       The conduct was humiliating.

114.       The conduct unreasonably interfered with Plaintiff’s work performance.

115.       The conduct was so extreme that it resulted in material changes to the terms and

   conditions of Plaintiff’s employment.



                                            25
           Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 29 of 42




    116.        The City provided a futile avenue for complaint.

    117.        The City retaliated against Plaintiff for her complaints.

    118.        The City acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

    119.        As a result of the City’s violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages,

        including, but not limited to: past and future lost wages, pain and suffering,

        inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress,

        reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible

        and intangible.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Janelle Newsome demands judgment against Defendant City of

Philadelphia and prays for the following relief: (1) an award of compensatory damages in an

amount consistent with Title VII; (2) an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of this

action in accordance with Title VII; (3) an award of pre- and post-judgment interest and court

costs as further allowed by law; (4) an adjudication and declaration that Defendant’s conduct as

set forth herein is in violation of Title VII; and (5) all additional general and equitable relief to

which Plaintiff is entitled.

                                           COUNT V
                                   TITLE VII RETALIATION
                                       42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3
                  Plaintiff Janelle Newsome v. Defendant City of Philadelphia
    120.        Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

    121.        Title VII protects employees from retaliation for attempting to exercise their

        rights under the Act:

                42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3. Other unlawful employment practices
                (a) Discrimination for making charges, testifying, assisting, or
                participating in enforcement proceedings. It shall be an unlawful
                employment practice for an employer to discriminate against any of
                                                  26
       Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 30 of 42




           his employees . . . because [she] has opposed any practice made an
           unlawful employment practice by this subchapter, or because [she]
           has made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner
           in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this subchapter.

122.       The Supreme Court in Burlington v. N. & S.F. Ry. V. White, 548 U.S. 53, 68

   (2006) held that a cause of action for retaliation under Title VII lies whenever the

   employer responds to protected activity in such a way that “might have dissuaded a

   reasonable worker from making or supporting a charge of discrimination.”

123.       Informal complaints and protests can constitute protected activity under the

   “opposition” clause of 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3(a). Moore v. City of Philadelphia, 461 F.3d

   331, 343 (3d Cir. 2006) (“Opposition to discrimination can take the form of informal

   protests of discriminatory employment practices, including making complaints to

   management.”).

124.       Retaliation need not be job-related to be actionable under Title VII—an employer

   can effectively retaliate against an employee by taking actions not directly related to her

   employment or by causing her harm outside the workplace. White, 548 U.S. at 61-62

   (rejecting authority from the Third Circuit and others requiring that the plaintiff suffer an

   adverse employment action in order to recover for retaliation).

125.       “[A] plaintiff need not prove the merits of the underlying discrimination

   complaint, but only that ‘[she] was acting under a good faith, reasonable belief that a

   violation existed.’” Aman v. Cort Furniture Rental Corp., 85 F.3d 1074, 1085 (3d Cir.

   1996); Griffiths v. CIGNA Corp., 988 F.2d 457, 468 (3d Cir. 1993); Sumner v. United

   States Postal Service, 899 F.2d 203, 209 (2d Cir. 1990), overruled on other grounds by

   Miller v. CIGNA Corp., 47 F.3d 586 (3d Cir.1995); see also Moore, 461 F.3d at 341

   (finding that a transfer of a police officer from a district could constitute actionable

                                             27
       Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 31 of 42




   retaliation because it “is the kind of action that might dissuade a police officer from

   making or supporting a charge of unlawful discrimination within his squad.”).

126.       Here, the City discriminated against Plaintiff because of her protected activity

   under Title VII.

127.       Plaintiff was acting under a reasonable, good faith belief that her right to be free

   from discrimination on the basis of sex was violated.

128.       Plaintiff was subjected to materially adverse actions at the time or after the

   protected conduct took place.

129.       The City also discriminated against Plaintiff by taking materially adverse actions

   against third parties who engaged in protected activity on Plaintiff’s behalf.

130.       There was a causal connection between the City’s materially adverse actions and

   Plaintiff’s protected activity.

131.       The City’s actions were “materially adverse” because they were serious enough to

   discourage a reasonable worker from engaging in protected activity.

132.       The City acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

133.       Plaintiff will rely on a broad array of evidence to demonstrate a causal link

   between their protected activity and the City’s actions taken against her, such as the

   unusually-suggestive proximity in time between events, as well as Defendant’s

   antagonism and change in demeanor toward Plaintiff after Defendant became aware of

   Plaintiff’s protected activity.

134.       As a result of the City’s violations of Title VII, Plaintiff has suffered damages,

   including, but not limited to: past and future lost wages, pain and suffering,

   inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation, emotional distress,



                                             28
           Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 32 of 42




        reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other harm, both tangible

        and intangible.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Janelle Newsome demands judgment against Defendant City of

Philadelphia and prays for the following relief: (1) an award of compensatory damages in an

amount consistent with Title VII; (2) an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of this

action in accordance with Title VII; (3) an award of pre- and post-judgment interest and court

costs as further allowed by law; (4) an adjudication and declaration that Defendant’s conduct as

set forth herein is in violation of Title VII; and (5) all additional general and equitable relief to

which Plaintiff is entitled.

                                    COUNT VI
   DISPARATE TREATMENT IN VIOLATION OF EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE
                                  42 U.S.C. § 1983
            Plaintiff Janelle Newsome v. Defendant City of Philadelphia
    135.        Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

    136.        The Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution protects persons

        from being subjected to discrimination, by persons acting under color of state law, on the

        basis of a protected class (e.g., sex). U.S. Const. amend. XIV.

    137.        Section 1983 provides:
                Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation,
                custom, or usage, of any State or Territory or the District of
                Columbia, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the
                United States or other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the
                deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the
                Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an action
                at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress, except
                that in any action brought against a judicial officer for an act or
                omission taken in such officer’s judicial capacity, injunctive relief
                shall not be granted unless a declaratory decree was violated or
                declaratory relief was unavailable. For the purposes of this section,
                any Act of Congress applicable exclusively to the District of

                                                  29
          Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 33 of 42




               Columbia shall be considered to be a statute of the District of
               Columbia.

42 U.S.C. § 1983.
   138.        Section 1983 provides a cause of action for unconstitutional employment

       discrimination by both employers and individuals, so long as the plaintiff shows that the

       defendant acted under color of state law. See Fitzgerald v. Barnstable School Committee,

       129 S. Ct. 788, 796 (2009) (“The Equal Protection Clause reaches only state actors, but §

       1983 equal protection claims may be brought against individuals as well as municipalities

       and certain other state entities.”); see also Andrews v. City of Philadelphia, 895 F.2d

       1469, 1478 (3d Cir. 1990) (“Liciardello and Doyle objectively should have known the

       applicable legal standard, and thus are not protected by qualified immunity in treating, or

       allowing their subordinates to treat, female employees differently on the basis of gender

       in their work environment.”).

   139.        “[M]unicipalities and other local government units [are] included among those

       persons to whom § 1983 applies.” Monell v. Department of Social Services of City of

       New York, 436 U.S. 658, 690 (1978). However, “a municipality cannot be held liable

       under § 1983 on a respondeat superior theory.” Id. at 691. “Instead, it is when execution

       of a government's policy or custom, whether made by its lawmakers or by those whose

       edicts or acts may fairly be said to represent official policy, inflicts the injury that the

       government as an entity is responsible under § 1983.” Id. at 694.

   140.        Defendant violated Section 1983 by intentionally discriminating against Plaintiff

       in a serious tangible way with respect to her compensation, terms, conditions or

       privileges of employment.




                                                  30
       Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 34 of 42




141.       Plaintiff’s protected characteristics (sex) was a determinative or motivating factor

   in Defendant’s employment actions.

142.       Defendant cannot show any legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for its

   employment practices and any reasons proffered by the Defendant for its actions against

   Plaintiff are pretextual and can readily be disbelieved.

143.       Plaintiff’s protected status played a motivating part in the Defendant’s decisions

   even if other factors may also have motivated Defendant’s actions against Plaintiff.

144.       Defendant acted under color of state law.

145.       Defendant acted with the intent to discriminate.

146.       Defendant acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

147.       Moreover, this case unquestionably involves official policy: the City, the PPD,

   and their policymaking officials (1) directed that the violations occur; (2) authorized the

   violations; (3) agreed to subordinates’ decisions to engage in the violations; (4) provided

   inadequate training; (5) provided inadequate supervision; and (6) failed to adopt needed

   policies to prevent the violations.

148.       Defendant acted with malice or reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally

   protected rights and as a result there should be an award of punitive damages against

   Defendant.

149.       As a result of Defendant’s violations of Plaintiff’s Equal Protection rights,

   Plaintiff has suffered damages, including, but not limited to: past and future lost wages,

   pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation,

   emotional distress, reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other

   harm, both tangible and intangible.



                                            31
            Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 35 of 42




     WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Janelle Newsome demands judgment against Defendant City of

 Philadelphia and prays for the following relief: (1) actual damages; (2) compensatory damages in

 an amount consistent with Section 1983; (3) reasonable attorneys’ fees in accordance with

 Section 1983; (4) litigation costs in accordance with Section 1983; (5) pre- and post-judgment

 interest as further allowed by law; (6) an adjudication and declaration that Defendant’s conduct

 as set forth herein is in violation of Section 1983; (7) punitive damages in accordance with

 Section 1983; (8) front pay in accordance with Section 1983; and (9) all additional general and

 equitable relief to which Plaintiff is entitled.

                                   COUNT VII
HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT IN VIOLATION OF EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE
                                 42 U.S.C. § 1983
           Plaintiff Janelle Newsome v. Defendant City of Philadelphia
     150.        Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

     151.        The Third Circuit has made it clear that harassment can give rise to an equal

         protection claim. See, e.g., Andrews v. City of Philadelphia, 895 F.2d 1469, 1478-79 (3d

         Cir. 1990) (upholding verdict for plaintiff on harassment claims against city employees,

         based on conclusion that evidence supported finding of purposeful discrimination); see

         also Bohen v. City of East Chicago, Ind., 799 F.2d 1180, 1185 (7th Cir. 1986)

         (“harassment of female employees by a state employer constitutes sex discrimination for

         purposes of the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment.”); Cheryl L.

         Anderson, "Nothing Personal:" Individual Liability under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 for Sexual

         Harassment as an Equal Protection Claim, 19 BERKELEY J. EMP. & LAB. L. 60, 80

         (1998) (citing Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, 477 U.S. 57 (1986) as support for

         argument that harassment can satisfy the intentional discrimination requirement for equal

         protection claims).

                                                    32
       Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 36 of 42




152.       The Third Circuit has also made clear that a harassment equal protection claim

   can be made even if the defendant is not the plaintiff’s supervisor. See Bonenberger v.

   Plymouth Twp., 132 F.3d 20, 24 (3d Cir. 1997).

153.       Additionally, a plaintiff can show an equal protection violation by a supervisor

   who fails properly to address harassment by the plaintiff’s co-workers. Andrews, 895

   F.2d at 1479.

154.       A municipal employer can be liable on the theory that it directly encouraged

   harassment of the plaintiff, or on the theory that it did not do enough to prevent the

   harassment. See Bohen, 799 F.2d at 1187 (“[A] plaintiff can make an ultimate showing of

   sex discrimination either by showing that harassment that is attributable to the employer

   under § 1983 amounted to intentional sex discrimination or by showing that the

   conscious failure of the employer to protect the plaintiff from the abusive conditions

   created by fellow employees amounted to intentional discrimination.”); cf. Reynolds v.

   Borough of Avalon, 799 F. Supp. 442, 447 (D.N.J. 1992) (holding that “a reasonable jury

   might find that the risk of harassment in the workplace is so obvious that an employer's

   failure to take action to prevent or stop it from occurring--even in the absence of actual

   knowledge of its occurrence--constitutes deliberate indifference, where the employer has

   also failed to take any steps to encourage the reporting of such incidents”).

155.       Defendant violated Section 1983 by subjecting Plaintiff to harassment based on

   sex and pregnancy.

156.       Defendant’s conduct was not welcomed by Plaintiff.

157.       Defendant’s conduct was so severe or pervasive that a reasonable nursing mother

   would find the work environment to be hostile or abusive.



                                            33
       Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 37 of 42




158.       Plaintiff believed her work environment was hostile or abusive as a result of

   Defendant’s conduct.

159.       As a result of the hostile work environment, Plaintiff suffered a “tangible

   employment action” defined as a significant change in employment status, failure to

   promote, reassignment with significantly different responsibilities, and/or a decision

   causing a significant change in benefits.

160.       Defendant failed to exercise reasonable care to prevent harassment in the

   workplace by failing to establish an explicit policy against harassment in the workplace

   on the basis of sex and pregnancy, failing to fully communicate the policy to their

   employees, failing to provide a reasonable way for Plaintiff to make a claim of

   harassment to higher management, and failing to take reasonable steps to promptly

   correct the harassing behavior raised by Plaintiff.

161.       Defendant acted under color of state law.

162.       Defendant acted with the intent to discriminate.

163.       Defendant acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

164.       Moreover, this case unquestionably involves official policy: the City, the PPD,

   and their policymaking officials (1) directed that the violations occur; (2) authorized the

   violations; (3) agreed to subordinates’ decisions to engage in the violations; (4) provided

   inadequate training; (5) provided inadequate supervision; and (6) failed to adopt needed

   policies to prevent the violations.

165.       Defendant acted with malice or reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally

   protected rights and as a result there should be an award of punitive damages against

   Defendant.



                                               34
           Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 38 of 42




    166.        As a result of Defendant’s violations of Plaintiff’s Equal Protection rights,

        Plaintiff has suffered damages, including, but not limited to: past and future lost wages,

        pain and suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation,

        emotional distress, reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other

        harm, both tangible and intangible.

    WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Janelle Newsome demands judgment against Defendant City of

Philadelphia and prays for the following relief: (1) actual damages; (2) compensatory damages in

an amount consistent with Section 1983; (3) reasonable attorneys’ fees in accordance with

Section 1983; (4) litigation costs in accordance with Section 1983; (5) pre- and post-judgment

interest as further allowed by law; (6) an adjudication and declaration that Defendant’s conduct

as set forth herein is in violation of Section 1983; (7) punitive damages in accordance with

Section 1983; (8) front pay in accordance with Section 1983; and (9) all additional general and

equitable relief to which Plaintiff is entitled.

                                         COUNT VIII
                  RETALIATION IN VIOLATION OF PETITION CLAUSE
                                        42 U.S.C. § 1983
                  Plaintiff Janelle Newsome v. Defendant City of Philadelphia
    167.        Plaintiff repeats every allegation made in the above paragraphs of this complaint.

    168.        The First Amendment gives persons the right to petition the Government for a

        redress of grievances. U.S. Const. amend. I.

    169.        “[R]etaliation by a government employer for a public employee’s exercise of the

        right of access to the courts may implicate the protections of the Petition Clause.”

        Borough of Duryea v. Guarnieri, 131 S. Ct. 2488, 2494 (2011); see also Mack v. Warden




                                                   35
       Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 39 of 42




   Loretto FCI, 839 F.3d 286 (3d Cir. 2016) (holding that an inmate’s oral grievance is

   protected under the Petition Clause).

170.       To be protected under the First Amendment, speech by a government employee

   “must be on a matter of public concern, and the employee's interest in expressing herself

   on this matter must not be outweighed by any injury the speech could cause to ‘the

   interest of the State, as an employer, in promoting the efficiency of the public services it

   performs through its employees.’” Waters v. Churchill, 511 U.S. 661, 668 (1994).

171.       A report of sex-based discrimination or harassment by a government official can

   constitute speech on a matter of public concern. See Azzaro v. County of Allegheny, 110

   F.3d 968, 975 (3d Cir. 1997) (reasoning that the plaintiff’s reports “brought to light actual

   wrongdoing on the part of one exercising public authority.”).

172.       The plaintiff must show a “causal link” between the protected speech and the

   adverse employment action. See Azzaro, 110 F.3d at 981 (reversing summary judgment

   dismissing First Amendment retaliation claim because there existed “a material dispute of

   fact as to whether [plaintiff’s] reports were a motivating factor in the discharge

   decision”).

173.       If the plaintiff shows that the decisionmaker was aware of the protected conduct,

   then the plaintiff may use the temporal proximity between that knowledge and the

   adverse employment action to argue causation. Thomas v. Town of Hammonton, 351

   F.3d 108, 114 (3d Cir. 2003).

174.       Here, Plaintiff engaged in activity that was protected by the First Amendment’s

   Petition Clause.

175.       Plaintiff’s speech was on a matter of public concern.



                                            36
          Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 40 of 42




   176.       Defendant took materially adverse employment actions against Plaintiff for

       engaging in protected activity.

   177.       Plaintiff’s protected activity was a substantial or motivating factor in Defendant’s

       decisions.

   178.       Defendant cannot show any legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for its

       employment practices and any reasons proffered by Defendant for its actions against

       Plaintiff are pretextual and can readily be disbelieved.

   179.       Defendant acted upon a continuing course of conduct.

   180.       Moreover, this case unquestionably involves official policy: the City, the PPD,

       and their policymaking officials (1) directed that the violations occur; (2) authorized the

       violations; (3) agreed to subordinates’ decisions to engage in the violations; (4) provided

       inadequate training; (5) provided inadequate supervision; and (6) failed to adopt needed

       policies to prevent the violations.

   181.       Defendant acted with malice or reckless indifference to Plaintiff’s federally

       protected rights and as a result there should be an award of punitive damages against

       Defendant.

   182.       As a result of Defendant’s violations of Plaintiffs’ Free Speech rights, Plaintiff

       has suffered damages, including, but not limited to: past and future lost wages, pain and

       suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, humiliation,

       emotional distress, reputational harm, diminishment of career opportunities, and other

       harm, both tangible and intangible.

   WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Janelle Newsome demands judgment against Defendant City of

Philadelphia and prays for the following relief: (1) actual damages; (2) compensatory damages;


                                                37
Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 41 of 42
Case 2:19-cv-05590-MMB Document 1 Filed 11/26/19 Page 42 of 42
