Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/16403094/1/yonchek-v-the-middle-east-forum/
Title: Complaint – #1 in YONCHEK v. THE MIDDLE EAST FORUM (E.D. Pa., 2:19-cv-05083) – CourtListener.com

             Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 1 of 51



                           UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                         EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

                                              :
DELANEY YONCHEK                               :       CIVIL ACTION
              Plaintiff,                      :       NO.
-vs-                                          :
                                              :
THE MIDDLE EAST FORUM,                        :       PLAINTIFF REQUESTS
DANIEL PIPES (individually),                  :       TRIAL BY JURY
GREG ROMAN (individually), and                :
                   Defendants.                :


       Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, by and through undersigned counsel hereby files this Civil

Action Complaint against Defendants, Middle East Forum, Daniel Pipes (individually), and Greg

Roman (individually) (collectively “Defendants”) and upon information and belief avers the

following:

                                         I.   PARTIES

       1.       Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek (“Plaintiff” or “Ms. Yonchek”) is an adult individual

who resides in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

       2.       Defendant, Middle East Forum (“MEF”) is a business organization existing under

the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with an address for the purposes of service 1650

Market Street, Suite 3600, Philadelphia, PA 19103.

       3.       Defendant, Daniel Pipes is an adult individual who resides in the Commonwealth

of Pennsylvania with a business address for the purpose of service at 1650 Market Street, Suite

3600, Philadelphia, PA 19103.

       4.       Defendant, Greg Roman is an adult individual who resides in the Commonwealth

of Pennsylvania with a business address for the purpose of service at 1650 Market Street, Suite

3600, Philadelphia, PA 19103.



                                                  1
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 2 of 51



       5.      Defendant, Greg Roman was the Director of the Middle East Forum and at all

times relevant to this civil action Defendant, Greg Roman was a proxy for the Middle East

Forum and held supervisory authority over Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

       6.      At all times relevant to this Civil Action, Defendant, Daniel Pipes, Defendant,

Greg Roman and Defendant, Matthew Bennett were employees of Defendant, The Middle East

Forum, and held supervisory authority over Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek during Plaintiff’s

employment for Defendants.

       7.      Defendant, Daniel Pipes is the President of The Middle East Forum and held

supervisor authority over Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

       8.      Defendant, Greg Roman is the Director of The Middle East Forum and held

supervisor authority over Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

       9.      When Defendant, Greg Roman’s ability to work from or visit the office was

curtailed, after the November 2018 meeting, Defendant, Daniel Pipes sent an email to the

employees of the Middle East Forum to notify the staff that Matthew Bennett was acting

supervisor of the Middle East Forum. Accordingly, from November 2018 through February

2019, Matthew Bennett was the supervisor of the Middle East Forum and second in charge

behind Defendant, Daniel Pipes.

       10.     This changed sometime around March 2019 when Defendant, Greg Roman

resumed his position as Director of the Middle East Forum.

                                II.   NATURE OF THE CASE

       11.     Plaintiff complains pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as

codified, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e to 20003-17 (amended in 1972, 1978, by the Civil Rights Act of

1991, Pub. L. No. 102-166) (“Title VII”); Title 43 PS Labor § 955, the Pennsylvania Human



                                                2
             Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 3 of 51



Relations Act, as amended, 43 P.S. §§ 951, et. seq. (“PHRC”), under the laws of the

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; and under the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance, § 9-1100

et. seq. (“PFPO”) and seeks damages to redress injuries Plaintiff suffered as a result of

Defendants’ discrimination, harassment, retaliation and the hostile work. Accordingly, Plaintiff

brings this Civil Action to redress injuries Plaintiff suffered as a direct result of violations of

federal laws, the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the laws of the City of

Philadelphia and seeks damages to redress the injuries Plaintiff has suffered as a result of being

discriminated against on the basis of her sex and gender, and forced to endure a hostile work

environment, and retaliated against by her employer for reporting such discrimination and

harassment.

                               III. JURISDICTION AND VENUE

        12.     This action involves a Question of Federal Law under Title VII of the Civil Rights

Act of 1964. The honorable Court also has supplemental jurisdiction over the Commonwealth

Law and Municipal Law Causes of Action.

        13.     Venue is proper in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania as Plaintiff was employed

by Defendants and worked in the City of Philadelphia in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

where the discrimination, harassment and hostile work environment complained of occurred.

        14.     On or around June 20, 2019, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek filed a Charge of

Discrimination with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) against

Defendants as set forth herein. Plaintiff’s Charge of Discrimination was dual filed with the

Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission and the Philadelphia Commission on Human

Relations.




                                                   3
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 4 of 51



        15.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek’s claims under the Pennsylvania Human Relations

Act and the Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance are not yet ripe for suit. Plaintiff intends to

amend her Complaint sometime after her claims under the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and

the City of Philadelphia become ripe. This will occur one year after Plaintiff’s Charge was dual

filed. Plaintiff includes the Counts below to provide notice of her claims under Commonwealth

and City antidiscrimination laws, however, Plaintiff understands that she may not pursue these

claims until sometime after July 2020.

        16.    On or about July 31, 2019, the EEOC issued and sent a Dismissal and Notice of

Rights to Plaintiff which required that Plaintiff file a civil action within ninety (90) days of

receipt of the Dismissal and Notice of Rights in order to preserve Plaintiff’s rights under federal

laws.

        17.    This action is hereby commenced within ninety (90) days of receipt of the

Dismissal and Notice of Rights which is dated and was sent July 31, 2019.

                                    IV. MATERIAL FACTS

        18.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek began her employment for Defendant, The Middle

East Forum (“MEF”) sometime around October 2017.

        19.    Plaintiff was hired and began her employment at MEF as an intern.

        20.    Today, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek holds the position of Communications

Associate. Plaintiff’s supervisors include Defendant, Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman.

When Delaney Yonchek began the process of vindicating her rights for the severe and pervasive

discrimination and harassment to which Plaintiff was subjected by Defendants, Plaintiff was

instructed to begin reporting to Defendants’ In-House-Counsel, Mark Fink. The only other

employees who reported directly to Mark Fink are Patricia McNulty, Lisa Barbounis, Marnie



                                                  4
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 5 of 51



Meyer, and Caitriona Yonchek. Because Mark Fink’s responsibilities are entirely unrelated to

Plaintiff’s Delaney Yonchek’s responsibilities, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek has effectively

worked at the MEF without direction, guidance, or assistance since Plaintiff filed her Charge of

Discrimination at the EEOC. Accordingly, the possibility for future development, advancement,

and opportunity within the organization has been eliminated as a result of Plaintiff’s decision to

report discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

         21.   Defendant, Greg Roman is very high up in the organization of the Middle East

Forum and currently holds the position of Director of the Middle East Forum.

         22.   At all times relevant to this civil action Defendant, Greg Roman held the position

of Director of the Middle East Forum.

         23.   As the Director of the Middle East Form, Defendant, Greg Roman was the

penultimate person in charge of the Middle East Forum. Accordingly, Defendant, Greg Roman

along with Defendant, Daniel Pipes, ran and managed the Middle East Forum.

         24.   Defendant, Greg Roman was and continues to be so high up in the organization

that the only person to whom Defendant, Greg Roman reports is Defendant, Daniel Pipes.

         25.   Defendant, Greg Roman is considered by Defendant, Daniel Pipes to be crucial to

the operations and success of the Middle East Forum.

         26.   Defendant, Greg Roman has the ability to create policy for the Middle East

Forum.

         27.   Defendant, Greg Roman must be considered a proxy for MEF and all

discrimination and harassment to which Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was subjected including the

discrimination and harassment based upon sex and gender, and retaliation by Defendant, Greg

Roman should be held to a proxy-liability standard.



                                                 5
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 6 of 51



       28.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes is currently the President of the Middle East Forum.

There are no individuals employed by the Middle East Forum who hold positions above

Defendant, Daniel Pipes.

       29.     Defendant, Greg Roman, and Defendant, Daniel Pipes are responsible for

developing, enacting, and enforcing all policies, procedures, protocols employed to operate the

Middle East Forum.

       30.     At all times relevant to this Civil Action Defendant, Daniel Pipes was the

President of MEF.

       31.     Defendant, Greg Roman is a large man and uses his size and height in his violent

and aggressive interactions with female employees who Defendant, Greg Roman supervised.

       32.     Defendant, Greg Roman used his size to intimidate and sometimes overpower

female employees who Defendant, Greg Roman supervised with proxy-authority as Director of

the MEF.

       33.     Defendant, Greg Roman sexually assaulted Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek’s

coworker, Patricia McNulty at the AIPAC conference which occurred in Washington D.C., when

Defendant, Greg Roman violently yanked Patricia McNulty across the couch, onto his lap, and

whispered inappropriate, unwelcome sexual advances in Ms. McNulty’s ear.

       34.     Defendant, Greg Roman subjected Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek to discrimination

and harassment based upon Plaintiff’s sex and gender until November 2018 when Defendant,

Greg Roman was forced to discontinue working from the MEF office due to a large number of

reports of sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and sex and gender discrimination involving

Defendant, Greg Roman and the female staff of the Middle East Forum.




                                                6
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 7 of 51



       35.     Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was subjected to discrimination and harassment based

upon her sex and gender by Defendant, Greg Roman when Defendants brought Defendant, Greg

Roman back to the Middle East Forum and allowed Defendant, Greg Roman to continue his

position as Director of the Middle East Forum sometime around March 2019 until the present.

       36.     Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was forced to work in a hostile work environment due

to Defendant, Greg Roman’s severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment based upon

Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek’s sex and gender while Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek worked in the

Philadelphia MEF office.

       37.     Defendant, Greg Roman counted the number of times Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek

used the rest room.

       38.     Working with Defendant, Greg Roman meant that Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek

would have to contend with Defendant, Greg Roman’s inappropriate conduct and comments

aimed toward the MEF female staff based upon their sex and gender.

       39.     Employees who have worked with Defendant, Greg Roman who have stated that

working with Defendant, Greg Roman meant having to contend with Defendant, Greg Roman’s

inappropriate conduct and comments including sexually inappropriate conduct and comments

include but is in no way limited to: (1) Lisa Barbounis, (2) Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, (3)

Marnie Meyer, (4) Tiffany Lee, (5) Caitriona Brady, (6) Patricia McNulty, (7) Leah Merville, (8)

Alana Goodman, (9) Eman Patel, (10) Samantha Mandalas, (11) Laura Frank, (12) Lara (last

name unknown), (13) Rosie (last name unknown), and (14) Gabrielle Bloom.

       40.     At all times relevant to this civil action, Defendant, Greg Roman was Plaintiff,

Delaney Yonchek’s direct supervisor and used his supervisory and proxy authority to subject

Plaintiff to unwelcome discrimination based upon Plaintiff’s sex and gender.



                                                7
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 8 of 51



       41.     Defendant, Greg Roman used his position of Director of the MEF to make

Plaintiff’s work more difficult and forced Plaintiff to work longer hours by yelling at Plaintiff,

Delaney Yonchek in a violent and aggressive manner.

       42.     The sex and gender discrimination to which Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was

subjected during her employment at MEF by Defendant, Greg Roman created a hostile work

environment for Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

       43.     Defendant, Greg Roman subjected almost every female employee who he

supervised at MEF to unwelcome sex and gender discrimination.

       44.     Defendant, Greg Roman specifically used his position as a proxy for MEF to

recruit very attractive female employees and prey upon his female staff by subjecting the female

staff to unwelcome sexual advances.

       45.     Before Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek began her employment at MEF, there were

two female employees of MEF named Laura Frank (“Laura”) and Lara (last name unknown at

this time) (“Lara).

       46.     Laura and Lara were employees of MEF. Their supervisors included Defendant,

Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman.

       47.     Defendant, Greg Roman was the direct supervisor of Laura Frank and Lara (last

name unknown).

       48.     Laura and Lara were subjected to severe and pervasive discrimination and

harassment due to their sex and gender.

       49.     Laura and Lara engaged in protected activity when they held discussions using

private Google instant messaging and considered their options for legal recourse due to

Defendant, Greg Roman’s discrimination and harassment in the workplace. Laura and Lara



                                                 8
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 9 of 51



were subjected to retaliation when they opposed and/or reported the severe and pervasive

discrimination to which Laura and Lara were subjected during their employment at MEF.

       50.     Laura and Lara engaged in protected activity when they discussed and considered

initiating legal action to vindicate their rights due to the severe and pervasive discrimination and

harassment in the workplace to which they were subjected by Defendant, Greg Roman during

their employment at MEF.

       51.     Laura and Lara used instant Google messaging to discuss the unwelcome sexual

harassment to which Defendant, Greg Roman subjected Laura and Lara during their employment

at MEF.

       52.     Defendant, Greg Roman broke into Laura and Lara’s computers after work one

evening and discovered, by reading their private Google instant messaging, that Laura and Lara

were currently discussing their legal options due to Defendant, Greg Roman’s discrimination and

harassment in the workplace due to sex and gender.

       53.     Defendant, Greg Roman discussed the instant Google messages between Laura

and Lara with Defendant, Daniel Pipes.

       54.     Together, Defendant, Greg Roman and Defendant, Daniel Pipes decided to

terminate both Laura and Lara’s employment. This termination constituted unlawful retaliation

as Laura and Lara were terminated for engaging in protected activity.

       55.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman refused to investigate the

information that was discovered on Laura and Lara’s private Google instant messaging.

Because of Defendant, Greg Roman and Defendant, Daniel Pipe’s refusal to investigate and

remediate the issues raised by Laura and Lara, the hostile work environment at the MEF was




                                                 9
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 10 of 51



permitted to continue, and Defendant, Greg Roman was authorized to continue his unlawful

conduct which subjected female staff at the MEF to sex and gender discrimination.

       56.     Defendants did not initiate remedial measures as a result of the information

discovered in Laura and Lara’s instant Google messaging. MEF took no action to discover and

remediate the severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

       57.     To the contrary, Defendant, Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman have

initiated, implemented and enforced policies designed to frustrate the congressional intent of

federal, state and city anti-discrimination laws enacted to protect female employees from

discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

       58.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes’ objectives, policies and procedures have worked to

protect Defendant, Greg Roman, despite the ongoing and increasing number of allegations of sex

and gender discrimination and harassment aimed at the female staff in which Defendant, Greg

Roman was implicated.

       59.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes has ignored and disregarded ongoing reports of

discrimination and harassment involving Defendant, Greg Roman along with his duty to protect

the female employees who work at the MEF.

       60.     Accordingly Defendant, Daniel Pipes’ policies and actions have expressly

communicated that Defendant, Greg Roman’s discrimination and harassment of the female staff

of MEF is allowed, sanctioned, permitted and condoned.

       61.     Defendant, Greg Roman’s discriminatory conduct and comments as Director of

the MEF has occurred with express authorization of Defendant, Daniel Pipes.

       62.     This authorization has resulted in MEF’s female staff subjected to severe and

pervasive sexual harassment discrimination and harassment based on sex and gender.



                                                10
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 11 of 51



       63.      Laura Frank and Lara (last name unknown) were unlawfully terminated in

retaliation for discussing and considering reporting Defendant, Greg Roman’s discrimination and

harassment in the workplace.

       64.      Laura and Lara were simultaneously terminated from their employment with MEF

due to their sex and gender and in retaliation for opposing and reporting discrimination and

harassment in the workplace.

       65.      Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek began her employment soon after Laura and Lara

were unlawfully terminated from their employment by Defendant, Greg Roman and Defendant,

Daniel Pipes.

       66.      Defendant, Daniel Pipes has a history of discrimination of women based upon

their sex and gender.

       67.      Defendant, Greg Roman also has a history of discrimination and harassment of

women based on their sex and gender.

       68.      Female employees who worked with Defendant, Daniel Pipes have been

subjected to ridicule, abuse, discrimination, and harassment due to their sex and gender.

       69.      Rosie (last name unknown) (“Rosie”) was a female employee who worked at The

Middle East Forum.

       70.      Rosie worked at The Middle East Forum about one year before Plaintiff, Patricia

McNulty.

       71.      Defendant, Greg Roman asked Rosie to transition to a position as an assistant to

Greg Roman.




                                                11
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 12 of 51



       72.     Defendant, Greg Roman unlawfully targeted and terminated Rosie’s employment

due to Rosie’s membership in a protected class with the authorization, consent, knowledge, and

permission of Defendant, Daniel Pipes.

       73.     Rosie abandoned her employment for MEF to avoid working closely with

Defendant, Greg Roman.

       74.     Prior to leaving her employment for MEF, Rosie said, “I will be dead before

working for Greg Roman.”

       75.     Rosie refused to work with Defendant, Greg Roman due to the severe and

pervasive discrimination and harassment of female employees and the hostile work environment

which Defendant, Greg Roman created for his female staff.

       76.     Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek is not the only female employee who Defendant, Greg

Roman supervised who has alleged that Defendant, Greg Roman subjected her to sex and gender

discrimination and harassment.

       77.     Defendant, Greg Roman has subjected multiple female employees to severe and

pervasive sex and gender discrimination and harassment.

       78.     Many of these female employees who have worked for Defendant, Greg Roman

have filed Charges of Discrimination at the EEOC to report Defendant, Greg Roman’s

discrimination and harassment based upon sex and gender.

       79.     Female employees who have reported Defendant, Greg Roman’s sexual

harassment, sexual misconduct, sexually inappropriate behavior including quid pro quo sexual

harassment, stalking like behavior, and in some cases sexual assaults, include (1) Lisa Barbounis,

(2) Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, (3) Tiffany Lee, (4) Caitriona Brady, and (5) Patricia McNulty.




                                               12
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 13 of 51



       80.    Tiffany Lee is yet another employee who Defendant, Greg Roman supervised and

subjected to discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment due to sex and gender.

       81.    Sometime around May 2016, Defendant, Greg Roman invited Tiffany Lee to visit

his home in Margate for the weekend.

       82.    Defendant, Greg Roman made sure to inform Tiffany Lee that Defendant, Greg

Roman’s wife and children would not be home during Tiffany Lee’s visit to Defendant, Greg

Roman’s home.

       83.    Defendant, Greg Roman subjected Tiffany Lee to inappropriate sexual advances

and called and texted Tiffany Lee at inappropriate times at night and on the weekends.

       84.    Tiffany Lee reported Defendant, Greg Roman’s discrimination and harassment

and sexual harassment.

       85.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes refused to investigate.

       86.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes refused to initiate prompt remedial measures.

       87.    Tiffany Lee was subjected to a campaign of retaliation by Defendant, Greg

Roman which culminated in Tiffany Lee’s termination which occurred a short time after Tiffany

Lee reported Defendant, Greg Roman’s sexual harassment.

       88.    Defendant Greg Roman gave a former intern of the Middle East Forum named

Gabrielle Bloom $1,500.00 in cash when interns do not receive compensation from the MEF.

       89.    The intern voluntarily left the MEF and has stated that she left to avoid what she

characterized as future, inappropriate sexual advances visited upon her by Defendant, Greg

Roman. She said she could see it coming and left to avoid being put in that position.

       90.    Defendant, Greg Roman’s method of operation is that of a sexual predator.




                                               13
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 14 of 51



       91.    Defendant, Greg Roman uses his size, height, authority, and power to make

female employees who work at the MEF feel intimidated, threatened and uncomfortable. This

works best with interns of the MEF who Defendant, Daniel Pipes targets despite their age and

the clear imbalance of power.

       92.    Defendant, Greg Roman has also subjected Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek’s

coworker, Marnie Meyer to severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment in the

workplace based upon her sex and gender.

       93.    Marnie Meyer is the Director of Human Resources for Defendant, MEF.

       94.    Defendant, Greg Roman has harassed and discriminated against Marnie Meyer

and has attempted to lure Marnie Meyer across national borders with the intention of using fraud,

physical force and/or coercion in order to engage Marnie Meyer in sexual acts.

       95.    Defendant, Greg Roman offered Marnie Meyer a trip to Israel and then expressly

conditioned the trip to Israel on sharing the same Airbnb. Defendant, Greg Roman stated that

Marnie Meyer could only accompany Defendant, Greg Roman if she agreed to share an Airbnb.

       96.    Defendant, Greg Roman refused to allow Marnie Meyer to travel across national

borders to Israel unless Marnie Meyer shared the same living space with Defendant, Greg

Roman.

       97.    Defendant, Marnie Meyer refused to share an Airbnb with Defendant, Greg

Roman due to the obvious implication of the inappropriate condition.

       98.    Defendant, Greg Roman had already subjected Marnie Meyer to severe and

pervasive discrimination and harassment in the workplace based upon sex and gender.

       99.    Marnie Meyer was also subjected to discrimination and harassment from

Defendant Greg Roman.



                                               14
             Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 15 of 51



        100.     Marnie Meyer was harassed and sexually harassed by Defendant, Greg Roman to

such an extent that Marnie Meyer had to notify Defendant, Greg Roman, “I am never going to

sleep with you.”

        101.     Defendant, Greg Roman next asked Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek’s coworker, Lisa

Barbounis to travel to Israel with him. Defendant, Greg Roman provided the same condition to

Lisa Barbounis.

        102.     Defendant, Greg Roman provided Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek’s coworker, Lisa

Barbounis the same quid pro quo arrangement and conditioned the trip to Israel on sharing a

living space with Defendant, Greg Roman.

        103.     Defendant, Greg Roman informed Lisa Barbounis that she could only travel

across national borders to Israel if Lisa Barbounis agreed to share an Airbnb with him.

        104.     Plaintiff’s coworker, Lisa Barbounis has always wanted to travel to Israel.

        105.     Accordingly, Defendant, Greg Roman leveraged Lisa Barbounis’s desire to see

Israel to lure her across national borders with the intent of using fraud, coercion and/or force to

engage Lisa Barbounis in sexual acts.

        106.     Accordingly, in April 2018, Defendant, Greg Roman and Lisa Barbounis traveled

to Israel.

        107.     An eighteen (18) year old intern named Leah Merville is yet another MEF intern

who Defendant, Greg Roman targeted and propositioned for sex.

        108.     Defendant, Greg Roman sexually harassed Leah Merville by asking Leah

Merville to visit his hotel room to sign certain paperwork which Leah Merville required.

        109.     Defendant, Greg Roman said, I will sign it and give it to you. The paperwork

was apparently required paperwork for Leah Merville’s completion of her internship.



                                                 15
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 16 of 51



       110.    Leah Merville is a young girl who was an intern at MEF. Leah Merville is from

France and traveled to Israel alone and lived in a strange country with no good friends or family

nearby. Defendant, Greg Roman used his position of power and authority to pressure Leah

Merville into engaging in sexual acts with him.

       111.    Defendant, Greg Roman told Leah Merville to come to his hotel room because

that is where he had the paperwork that Leah Merville needed signed.

       112.    Defendant, Greg Roman also subjected Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek to

discrimination based on sex and gender and was violently aggressive toward female staff

members including Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

       113.    Defendant, Greg Roman screamed at Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

       114.    Defendant, Greg Roman Defendant, Greg Roman yelled at Plaintiff, Delaney

Yonchek in a violent and aggressive manner.

       115.    Defendant, Greg Roman did not treat Plaintiff’s similarly situated male coworkers

in this discriminatory, abusive, hostile and intolerable manner.

       116.    Defendant, Greg Roman also subjected Plaintiff’s female coworkers to

discrimination and harassment due to their sex and gender.

       117.    Defendant, Greg Roman also subjected coworker, Lisa Barbounis to severe and

pervasive discrimination and harassment based upon her sex and gender.

       118.    Defendant, Greg Roman also subjected Plaintiff’s coworker, Patricia McNulty to

severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment based upon her sex and gender.

       119.    Defendant, Greg Roman also subjected Plaintiff’s coworker, Caitriona Brady to

severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment based upon her sex and gender.




                                                  16
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 17 of 51



       120.    Defendant, Greg Roman also subjected Plaintiff’s coworker, Marnie Meyer to

severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment based upon her sex and gender.

       121.    At all times, Defendant, Greg Roman was Plaintiff Delaney Yonchek’s direct

supervisor and held proxy authority as the number two executive of the MEF.

       122.    Defendant, Greg Roman has subjected several other female employees who

worked at the MEF to discrimination and harassment based upon their sex and gender.

       123.    Defendant, Greg Roman developed, implemented and enforced policies,

procedures and protocols designed to limit employees’ access to President Daniel Pipes.

       124.    These policies which were strictly enforced which eliminated employees’ ability

to talk directly to Defendant, Daniel Pipes essentially set up Defendant, Greg Roman as the very

top MEF employee who employees could go to for assistance.

       125.    Defendant, Greg Roman developed and enforced these policies with the intention

of limiting Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek’s ability to report Defendant, Greg Roman’s

discrimination and harassment of the female staff based upon their sex and gender.

       126.    Defendant, Greg Roman developed, implemented and enforced policies which

were approved by Defendant, Daniel Pipes whereby employees including Plaintiff, Delaney

Yonchek were not allowed to go directly to Defendant, Daniel Pipes to express concerns or

obtain assistance.

       127.    Defendant, Greg Roman bullied Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek and made

inappropriate comments to Plaintiff.

       128.    Defendant, Greg Roman made comments about women’s’ looks, saying, look

how hot this one it, look how hot that one is.




                                                 17
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 18 of 51



       129.    Defendant, Greg Roman made comments about a former employee named

Tiffany Lee stating that she always had her boobs out and purposely did this to sexually entice

him.

       130.    Defendant, Greg Roman spoke about Tiffany Lee and described the way that

Tiffany Lee looked and blamed Tiffany Lee and the way she dressed for tempting Defendant,

Greg Roman.

       131.    Defendant, Greg Roman subjected Plaintiff Delaney Yonchek to discrimination

and harassment in the office based upon Plaintiff’s sex and gender.

       132.    Defendant, Greg Roman followed Plaintiff Delaney Yonchek around the office.

       133.    Defendant, Greg Roman used his size and height to intimidate Plaintiff, Delaney

Yonchek.

       134.    Defendant, Greg Roman entered Plaintiff Delaney Yonchek’s office when she

was not present and explored her computer including personal emails, chat history, and internet

browser history.

       135.    This is the same conduct which Defendant, Greg Roman subjected Laura and

Lara and led to Laura and Lara’s termination.

       136.    Defendant, Greg Roman undertook to discriminate and harass female staff,

including subjecting the female staff to sexual harassment and sexual misconduct with the

express understanding that Defendant, Daniel Pipes would protect Defendant, Greg Roman.

       137.    Defendant, Greg Roman subjected Plaintiff to severe and pervasive discrimination

and harassment based upon her sex and gender.




                                                18
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 19 of 51



       138.    This discrimination and harassment was evident in the way that Defendant, Greg

Roman spoke to Plaintiff, the assignments he required Plaintiff to complete, the tone of voice he

used, body language, expressions, use of language and cursing, and other threatening conduct.

       139.    Defendant, Greg Roman created a hostile work environment for Plaintiff, Delaney

Yonchek. The work environment was severe and pervasive.

       140.    Plaintiff reported the discrimination and harassment to which she was subjected

by Defendant, Greg Roman.

       141.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek notified Marnie Meyer who was the Director of

Human Resources.

       142.    Marnie Meyer prepared a five-page handwritten letter addressed to Daniel Pipes

and provided the letter on November 1, 2018.

       143.    Marnie Meyer notified Defendant, Daniel Pipes that Defendant, Greg Roman was

using his supervisory authority as Director of the MEF to “railroad” other female employees

including Plaintiff’s coworker, Lisa Barbounis and “set her up for failure.”

       144.    Marnie Meyer also reported a hostile work environment which was created by

Defendant, Greg Roman.

       145.    Marnie Meyer also reported to Defendant, Daniel Pipes that Defendant, Greg

Roman had sex with an MEF intern named Leah Merville. Marnie Meyer reported that Leah

Merville was eighteen (18) years old at the time, that Defendant, Greg Roman had sex with Leah

Merville in a hotel room in Israel, and at a time when Leah Merville needed Defendant, Greg

Roman to sign paperwork for her. After reporting this to Defendant, Daniel Pipes, Marnie

Meyer reported that this was just “the tip of the iceberg.”




                                                 19
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 20 of 51



       146.    Marnie Meyer also explained that she reported Defendant, Greg Roman’s

unlawful discrimination and harassment with handwritten letters out of fear because Defendant,

Greg Roman used the knowledge he gained as Director of the MEF, including secure passwords,

to spy on employees emails and files. Importantly, this is what led to Laura Frank and Lara (last

name unknown)’s termination.

       147.    Accordingly, Marnie Meyer handwrote her reports of discrimination to

Defendant, Daniel Pipes because she was scared to create an electronic record that could be

accessed by Defendant, Greg Roman.

       148.    Marnie Meyer’s fear of creating an electronic record was directly due to

Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct including stalking and spying.

       149.    Several female employees of the Middle East Forum spoke to Defendant, Daniel

Pipes on November 1, 2018.

       150.    Marnie Meyer made a report to notify Defendant, Daniel Pipes about Defendant,

Greg Roman’s sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and/or gender and sex discrimination.

Marnie Meyer turned in a five page, detailed, handwritten report of Defendant, Greg Roman’s

unlawful conduct and comments.

       151.    Lisa Barbounis made a report to notify Defendant, Daniel Pipes about Defendant,

Greg Roman’s sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and/or gender and sex discrimination and

specifically reported what occurred during the Israel trip.

       152.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek made a report to notify her supervisors about

Defendant, Greg Roman’s gender and sex discrimination. Plaintiff notified her supervisors that

she did not feel comfortable working with Defendant, Greg Roman or being alone in Defendant,

Greg Roman’s presence.



                                                 20
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 21 of 51



       153.     Delaney Yonchek made a report to notify her supervisors about Defendant, Greg

Roman’s gender and sex discrimination. Plaintiff explained to her supervisors that Defendant

Greg Roman subjected Plaintiff to discrimination and harassment and that Defendant, Greg

Roman yelled at Plaintiff, bullied Plaintiff, made comments designed to scare Plaintiff and notify

Plaintiff that he was watching Plaintiff using the company’s video system.

       154.     Prior to November 1, 2018, Defendant, Daniel Pipes was already on express and

actual notice regarding Defendant, Greg Roman’s sexual harassment, sexual misconduct and sex

and gender discrimination.

       155.     Prior to November 1, 2018, and by at least December 2016, Defendant, Daniel

Pipes was notified about a Charge of Discrimination filed with the Equal Employment

Opportunity Commission alleging that Defendant, Greg Roman subjected female employees to

sexual harassment and sexual misconduct.

       156.     The Charge of Discrimination was filed by former MEF employee, Tiffany Lee.

       157.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes was also on notice regarding the allegations of Gabrielle

Bloom, another former MEF intern who left MEF to get away from Defendant, Greg Roman.

       158.     Regarding both Tiffany Lee and Gabrielle Bloom, Defendant, Greg Roman said

that any sexual harassment they experienced was their fault because they invited it by the way

they dressed.

       159.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes was also on notice about Laura Frank and Lara (last

name unknown) and their conversations around Defendant, Greg Roman’s unlawful conduct and

comments.

       160.     Despite the reports concerning (1) Tiffany Lee, (2) Gabrielle Bloom, (3) Leah

Merville, (4) Laura Frank, (5) Lara (last name unknown), (6) Patricia McNulty, (7) Lisa



                                                21
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 22 of 51



Barbounis, (8) Marnie Meyer, (9) Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, (10) Caitriona Brady, (11)

Samantha Mandalas, (12) Eman Patel, and (13) Rosie (last name unknown), Defendant, Daniel

Pipes made comments such as, “I am just going to have to go with Greg Roman’s word.” It was

decisions like this made by Defendant, Daniel Pipes to protect Defendant, Greg Roman that

provided Defendant, Greg Roman the opportunity to subject Plaintiff to severe and pervasive

discrimination and harassment in the workplace based upon her sex and gender.

         161.   Defendant, Daniel Pipes was in possession of and had express and actual

knowledge about numerous reports of Defendant, Greg Roman’s sexual harassment and sexual

misconduct to which Defendant, Greg Roman subjected female employees who worked at The

Middle East Forum.

         162.   Defendant, Daniel Pipes remained loyal to Defendant, Greg Roman, who has been

accused of preying on female employees of The Middle East Forum for at least the past five (5)

years.

         163.   At every opportunity, Defendant, Daniel Pipes has introduced policies,

procedures, and protocols designed to punish the female employees of The Middle East Forum

who have claimed abuse and sexual abuse, while rewarding the individual accused of abusing

these same female employees.

         164.   Had Defendant, Daniel Pipes considered protecting his female staff by acting in

accordance with federal, state and local anti-discrimination laws, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek

would never have been subjected to severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment in the

workplace by Defendant, Greg Roman.

         165.   Due to Defendant, Daniel Pipes refusal to investigate and remediate earlier reports

of discrimination and harassment in the workplace, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek and many other



                                                22
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 23 of 51



of Plaintiff’s female coworkers were subjected to a campaign of discrimination and harassment

due to their sex and gender.

       166.    Had Defendant, Daniel Pipes acted in accordance with laws aimed at protecting

women from sexual harassment in the workplace, he would have investigated Defendant, Greg

Roman as early as 2016 and prompt remedial measures would have been implemented to

ameliorate and/or eliminate completely the future sex and gender discrimination which the

female staff of the MEF were subjected to thereafter.

       167.    Defendant Daniel Pipes held a group meeting on November 1, 2018, during

which, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, Lisa Barbounis, Marnie Meyer, Patricia McNulty, and

Caitriona Brady all expressed grave concerns regarding Defendant, Greg Roman’s

discrimination and harassment of the female staff.

       168.    During the November 1, 2018 meeting, Defendant, Daniel Pipes was notified

about the sexual assault in Washington D.C., during the AIPAC Conference concerning Plaintiff,

Delaney Yonchek’s coworker, Patricia McNulty.

       169.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes learned that Defendant, Greg Roman forcefully,

violently, and aggressively picked Patricia McNulty up by her upper thigh and back-side,

dropped her on his lap, and suggested that Ms. McNulty engage in sexual acts with Defendant,

Greg Roman.

       170.    During the November 1, 2018 meeting, Lisa Barbounis reported the sexual

harassment and sexual misconduct and sexual assault that occurred across national borders in

Israel when Defendant, Greg Roman subjected Lisa Barbounis to unwelcome lewd sexual

advances including unwelcome sexual touching.




                                               23
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 24 of 51



        171.   On November 1, 2018, The Middle East Forum’s female staff informed

Defendant, Daniel Pipes about Defendant, Greg Roman’s ongoing severe and pervasive

discrimination and harassment in the workplace including Defendant, Greg Roman’s decision to

proposition an eighteen (18) year old intern for sex in a hotel room in Israel while holding

paperwork the intern required over her head.

        172.   Defendant, Daniel Pipes responded to the reports of sexual harassment, sexual

misconduct, and sexual assaults by stating that Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct was not that

big a deal.

        173.   Defendant, Daniel Pipes suggested that because priests who molest children were

permitted by the Catholic Church to remain priests, Defendant, Greg Roman should be permitted

to continue his employment at the MEF. Defendant, Daniel Pipe indicated that the policy which

established the standard for terminating the Director of the Middle East Forum was not even

reached if it was proven that the Director of the Middle East Forum had molested minor children.

        174.   Defendant, Daniel Pipes said, “priests have been accused of more and not lost

their jobs.”

        175.   Defendant, Daniel Pipes did not apologize to any of his female staff; for the years

of abuse described and reported by his female staff on November 1, 2018.

        176.   Defendant, Daniel Pipes notified the female staff of The Middle East Forum

including Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, Marnie Meyer, Lisa Barbounis, Patricia McNulty, and

Caitriona Brady that The Middle East Forum maintains standards which inform when discipline

for sexual harassment in warranted.

        177.   Defendant, Daniel Pipes then told his female staff of The Middle East Forum that

Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct and comments over the years had not risen to the level where



                                                24
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 25 of 51



discipline was warranted. He said that Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct had not reached the

MEF standards for discipline.

       178.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes’ conclusion that Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct and

comments had not risen to the level where discipline was warranted was based upon MEF

policies which Defendant, Daniel Pipes claimed supported his conclusions.

       179.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes’ conclusions that Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct and

comments had not risen to the level where discipline was warranted was in response to learning

that coworker, Patricia McNulty had been sexually assaulted in Washington D.C. during the

AIPAC Conference.

       180.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes’ conclusions that Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct and

comments had not risen to the level where discipline was warranted was in response to learning

that a female staff member of The Middle East Forum named Marnie Meyer had been sexually

harassed.

       181.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes’ conclusions that Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct and

comments had not risen to the level where discipline was warranted was in response to learning

that a female staff member of The Middle East Forum, Lisa Barbounis, had been subjected to

unwelcome sexual touching, sexual assault, sexual harassment, and quid pro quo sexual

propositions.

       182.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes’ conclusions that Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct and

comments had not risen to the level where discipline was warranted was in response to learning

that the Director of the MEF, Defendant, Greg Roman engaged an eighteen (18) year old female

intern named Leah Merville in sexual intercourse in his hotel room, and that he had lured Ms.




                                               25
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 26 of 51



Merville to the hotel room with the promise of signing important paperwork which Ms. Merville

required.

       183.     Accordingly Defendant, Daniel Pipes initiated no discipline.

       184.     Saturday, November 3, 2018, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek received an email from

Defendant, Daniel Pipes instructing Plaintiff to attend a group meeting scheduled Monday,

November 5, 2018.

       185.     This memorandum was sent as a group email to Plaintiff and her coworkers.

       186.     Defendant, Greg Roman was included in the email and invited to attend the group

meeting.

       187.     Defendant, Greg Roman was specifically asked to attend the group meeting.

       188.     It was not until Monday, November 5, 2018 when a call was made to Defendant,

Greg Roman asking that he stay home. This call was made due to the female staff members all

expressing extreme discomfort at the idea of holding a group meeting about Defendant, Greg

Roman with Defendant, Greg Roman.

       189.     Defendant, Greg Roman’s sister attended the meeting in Defendant, Greg

Roman’s place and spent the entire meeting arguing in support of her brother.

       190.     Defendant, Greg Roman’s sister said that the woman who Defendant, Greg

Roman sexually harassed were at fault for wearing provocative attire.

       191.     The November 5, 2018 meeting was indicative of Defendant, Daniel Pipes utter

failure to bring his organization into compliance with state and federal anti-discrimination laws.

       192.     After the November 5, 2018 meeting, Defendant, Daniel Pipes decided that

Defendant, Greg Roman would retain his position, title, pay, and employment with the Middle

East Forum.



                                                26
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 27 of 51



       193.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes notified Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek that Defendant, Greg

Roman would work from home and that Plaintiff would no longer directly report to Defendant

Greg Roman.

       194.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes’ claimed that Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek would no

longer be forced to work with Defendant, Greg Roman.

       195.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes did not enforce his self-prescribed remedial measures

and Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was forced to continue working with Defendant, Greg Roman.

       196.    For the next few months, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was forced to continue

working with Defendant, Greg Roman.

       197.    The only change was that Defendant, Greg Roman did not visit the office.

       198.    Defendant, Greg Roman’s work duties, responsibilities, and authority remained

unchanged.

       199.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek continued to be subjected to discrimination and

harassment due to her sex and gender. The big difference was that Defendant, Greg Roman set

out on a mission of retaliation aimed at the female employees who reported his unlawful

conduct.

       200.    Plaintiff was still subjected to the same discrimination and harassment in the

workplace.

       201.    In fact, the discrimination and harassment got worse, as after the November 5,

2018 meeting, Defendant, Greg Roman unleashed a campaign of retaliation against Plaintiff,

Delaney Yonchek, Lisa Barbounis, Marnie Meyer, Patricia McNulty, and Caitriona Brady.

       202.    Defendant, Greg Roman openly voiced his retaliatory intent.




                                                27
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 28 of 51



       203.    Defendant, Greg Roman targeted the employees who Defendant, Greg Roman

called “the usurpers.”

       204.    Defendant Greg Roman also called the female staff who reported his sexual

harassment and sexual misconduct, “backstabbers.”

       205.    Defendant, Greg Roman notified Defendant, Mathew Bennett, “they are all

usurpers and I will never work with usurpers.”

       206.    Even more recently, Defendant, Greg Roman announced on a radio show that “all

usurpers should be crushed.”

       207.    Plaintiff was forced to continue working with Defendant, Greg Roman.

       208.    Plaintiff was still forced to take orders from Defendant, Greg Roman.

       209.    Defendant, Greg Roman was still the Director of the Middle East Forum.

       210.    Defendant, Greg Roman began a campaign of retaliation aimed at Plaintiff,

Delaney Yonchek and the other female employees in the office who reported discrimination and

harassment including Marnie Meyer, Lisa Barbounis, Caitriona Brady, and Patricia McNulty.

       211.    Sometime around March 2019, Defendant, Daniel Pipes announced that

Defendant, Greg Roman would return to full responsibilities as Director of the MEF.

       212.    After this meeting Defendant, Greg Roman began working directly with the staff

again, including the female staff who Defendant, Greg Roman had systemically victimized.

       213.    Defendant, Greg Roman was brought back on what was labeled a “strict

probationary period.” Defendant, Daniel Pipes promised strict rules, guidelines, scrutiny, and

oversight. None of this occurred.

       214.    Defendant, Greg Roman was moved back to a position where he would interact

directly with the female staff who he prayed upon, abused, and harassed.



                                                 28
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 29 of 51



       215.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek never agreed to working with Defendant, Greg

Roman again and informed management of MEF that Plaintiff did not want to work with

Defendant, Delaney Yonchek again. Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek objected to Defendant, Greg

Roman’s return and was scared, nervous, and upset that he was allowed to return after he spent

years subjecting female staff including the interns at MEF to severe and pervasive sexual

harassment, sexual misconduct, quid pro quo sexual propositions, sexual assaults, and sex and

gender-based discrimination.

       216.    The rules and guidelines agreed upon were intended to protect the female staff

who Defendant, Greg Roman had systematically victimized and sexually abused and harassed.

       217.    These rules and guidelines were quickly disregarded by Defendant, Daniel Pipes

and Defendant, Greg Roman.

       218.    At no time was Defendant, Greg Roman on a probationary period. Defendant,

Daniel Pipes brought Defendant, Greg Roman back and allowed Defendant, Greg Roman to

resume all responsibilities as the number 2 person in charge of the MEF.

       219.    Shortly after Defendant, Greg Roman’s return, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek noted

the discrimination and harassment and retaliation.

       220.    The female staff and Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek were subjected to a continuing

hostile work environment including retaliation due to their reporting and opposing Defendant,

Greg Roman’s discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

       221.    The female staff including Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek attempted to discuss the

fact that bringing Defendant, Greg Roman back was not working, and that Defendant, Greg

Roman was actively disregarding the guidelines and rules that the female staff and Defendant,

Daniel Pipes agreed upon as the conditions for Defendant, Greg Roman’s return.



                                               29
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 30 of 51



       222.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes continued his same policy employed for at least the last

five (5) years, of ignoring, disregarding, and refusing to take action in response to reports of

discrimination, harassment and retaliation concerning Defendant, Greg Roman.

       223.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman used the female staff’s

dedication to the MEF mission to convince female staff to tolerate discriminatory and harassing

working conditions.

       224.    At all times Defendant, Greg Roman retained the position of Director of the

Middle East Forum.

       225.    At all times, Plaintiff was forced to continue working at the Middle East Forum

with Defendant, Greg Roman.

       226.    During the March 2019 meeting, Defendant, Daniel Pipes announced that he was

going to eliminate the purported safe measures initiated to protect the female staff from

Defendant, Greg Roman’s severe and pervasive discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.

       227.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek objected to Defendant, Greg Roman returning to the

Middle East Forum as Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was scared to be alone with Defendant, Greg

Roman and Defendant, Greg Roman made Plaintiff Delaney Yonchek feel nervous,

uncomfortable, and anxious. Plaintiff, Greg Roman created a hostile work environment due to

Defendant, Greg Roman’s record of subjecting the female staff to severe and pervasive sexual

harassment, sexual assaults, sex and gender discrimination, sexual abuse, quid pro qui sexual

propositions, and sexual misconduct. Accordingly, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek did not approve

of and objected to Defendants decision to permit Defendant, Greg Roman to return to the MEF.

       228.    This was around the same time when Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek learned that

Defendant, Greg Roman was spreading information about her coworker, Caitriona Brady’s



                                                 30
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 31 of 51



father. Defendant, Greg Roman was actively informing MEF staff that Caitriona Brady’s father

and Marnie Meyer were engaged in an adulterous affair.

       229.    Defendant, Greg Roman began a rumor that Marnie Meyer was having a sexual

relationship with coworker, Caitriona Brady’s father.

       230.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek is an employee at the Middle East Forum who holds

the position Communications Associate.

       231.    When Defendant, Greg Roman first learned that another allegation of sexual

harassment was reported, he did not yet know the details of the allegation and did not yet know it

related to his claims involving Marnie Meyer and Caitriona Brady’s father.

       232.    Accordingly, Defendant, Greg Roman and Defendant, Mathew Bennett began a

guessing game where they attempted to guess what and who the allegation involved.

       233.    Defendant, Greg Roman incorrectly guessed that the sexual harassment allegation

involved a former intern named Gabrielle Bloom who Defendant, Greg Roman purportedly paid

when MEF policy does not include payment to interns.

       234.    Defendant, Greg Roman subjected two female interns to quid pro quo sexual

harassment.

       235.    Just days after the March 2019 meeting when Defendant, Daniel Pipes announced

that he was eliminating the measures designed to protect female staff from Defendant Greg

Roman, Defendant, Greg Roman called Defendant, Mathew Bennett.

       236.    Defendant, Greg Roman informed Defendant, Matthew Bennett, “now that I am

back, I am going to begin searching for a replacement for the Director of Development.”




                                               31
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 32 of 51



        237.    This was the position that one of Plaintiff’s coworkers named Patricia McNulty

held. Patricia McNulty was one of the employees who along with Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek

reported Defendant, Greg Roman’s unlawful conduct toward female staff.

        238.    Defendant, Greg Roman’s statement about coworker, Patricia McNulty indicated

his intent to retaliate against the employees who he called “the usurpers.” These were the women

who reported Defendant, Greg Roman’s discrimination and harassment.

        239.    Defendant, Greg Roman initiated a campaign of discrimination, harassment, and

retaliation against Plaintiff in an effort to effect Plaintiff’s termination.

        240.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes utterly disregarded all reports of ongoing discrimination,

harassment and retaliation involving Defendant, Greg Roman.

        241.    If anything, Defendant, Daniel Pipes has continued to provide Defendant, Greg

Roman more access, authority, and opportunity with which to achieve his discriminatory and

retaliatory agenda.

        242.    Despite allowing Defendant, Greg Roman to return on probationary status,

Defendant, Daniel Pipes continued to protect, shield, indemnify and assist Defendant, Greg

Roman from any and all impact caused by his severe and pervasive discrimination and

harassment in the workplace against female staff.

        243.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes has allowed, permitted, sanctioned and condoned

Defendant, Greg Roman’s sexual harassment and sex and gender discrimination and has never

considered a permanent solution.

        244.    Accordingly, Defendant, Daniel Pipes has condoned, sanctioned, permitted, and

allowed the discrimination, harassment, and retaliation to continue.




                                                   32
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 33 of 51



        245.    Defendants have made Plaintiff’s working conditions so onerous, abusive, and

intolerable that no person in Plaintiff’s shoes should be expected to continue working under such

conditions.

        246.    Plaintiff continued to work in a hostile work environment as a result of Plaintiff’s

reports of sex and gender discrimination and harassment. Plaintiff no longer has any support.

Defendant, Daniel Pipes will not communicate with Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek. Defendant,

Greg Roman will not communicate with Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek. At no time have

Defendants even acknowledged Plaintiff’s reports of discrimination and harassment in the

workplace and Plaintiff’s feelings of fear and anxiety caused by Defendant, Greg Roman’s

inappropriate conduct and comments. Defendants have withdrawn all support, direction, and

opportunity from Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek such that Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek feels like she

is working behind enemy lines every day.

        247.    The unlawful acts, comments and conduct described above all involved the same

individual and the same pattern of behavior which includes sexual harassment, sexual

misconduct, and sex and gender discrimination to which the female employees of MEF have

been subjected to for at least the last five (5) years.

        248.    Defendants and Defendant, Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman have been

subjecting female staff of The Middle East Forum to discrimination and harassment and

retaliation due to their sex and gender for years.

        249.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was highly aware that reporting discrimination and

harassment to Defendant, Daniel Pipes or other employees at the MEF was futile and would

probably result in retaliation.




                                                   33
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 34 of 51



        250.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was aware of Tiffany Lee, Gabrielle Bloom, Leah

Merville, Lisa Barbounis, Laura Frank, Lara (last name unknown), Rosia (last name unknown),

Samantha Mandalas, and Eman Patel and the fact that little or nothing was done to protect any of

them pursuant to reports of discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

        251.   Moreover, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was acutely aware that some employees

who had made reports of discrimination and harassment in the workplace had ended up

terminated shortly after making the report.

        252.   Defendant, Greg Roman was allowed to continue subjecting female staff of the

MEF to discrimination and harassment for years without any corrective action until November

2018; when reports of at least six female employees were made simultaneously. Even then

Defendant, Daniel Pipes said that Defendant, Greg Roman’s conduct and comments did not rise

to the level where discipline was warranted and Defendant, Greg Roman was permitted to

continue his employment with MEF as Director of MEF.

        253.   Accordingly Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek maintained a reasonable belief that

reporting sex and gender discrimination and harassment would be futile or result in retaliation.

        254.   The way in which Defendant, Daniel Pipes ignored reports of discrimination and

harassment in the workplace concerning Defendant, Greg Roman created a reasonable inference

that any individual report of sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, or sex and gender

discrimination by Defendant, Greg Roman would be futile and would most likely result in

retaliation.

        255.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was made aware of Laura Frank and Lara’s (last name

unknown) termination which resulted when Laura and Lara discussed Defendant, Greg Roman’s




                                                34
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 35 of 51



discrimination and harassment in the workplace. This information was essentially a warning not

even to discuss reporting discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

        256.     Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was made aware of Tiffany Lee’s attempts to

vindicate her rights in 2016 which resulted in Tiffany Lee’s termination.

        257.     For these reasons Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was reasonably dissuaded from

reporting Defendant, Greg Roman’s discrimination and harassment.

        258.     It helped Plaintiff feel more protected when Marnie Meyer, Lisa Barbounis,

Patricia McNulty, and Caitriona Brady all came together to report Defendant, Greg Roman’s

unlawful conduct and comments in November 2018.

        259.     Defendants used to employ a female individual named Eman Patel.

        260.     Eman Patel was a gay Muslim female who worked at Middle East Forum.

        261.     Eman Patel was harassed by Defendant, Greg Roman until she was constructively

discharged. Defendant, Greg Roman’s objective was to make Eman Patel’s working conditions

so intolerable that she decided to discontinue her employment in a manner which Defendant,

Greg Roman and Defendant, Daniel Pipes considered voluntary.

        262.     Both Defendant, Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman harassed Eman Patel

until she quit

        263.     Because of the number of protected classes that she could be considered to fall

within, Defendant, Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman called Eman Patel “a walking

lawsuit.”

        264.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes approved of the plan to harass and make Eman Patel’s

work life so intolerable that she quit on her own.




                                                 35
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 36 of 51



       265.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes and Defendant, Greg Roman used Eman Patel’s gender

to harass and discriminate.

       266.    Eman Patel is yet another member of the MEF female staff who was subjected to

discrimination and harassment due to her sex and gender.

       267.    Samantha Mandalas was another female employee of the Middle East Forum.

       268.    Samantha Mandalas said in her exit interview “if I would have been a male I

would have gotten more respect.”

       269.    Samantha Mandalas was subjected to discrimination and harassment due to her

sex and gender.

       270.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was subjected to discrimination and harassment by

Defendants, Middle East Forum, Greg Roman, Daniel Pipes, and Matt Bennett based upon

Plaintiff’s sex and gender.

       271.    The discrimination and harassment to which Plaintiff was subjected was severe

and pervasive and created a hostile work environment.

       272.    Plaintiff’s supervisors were Greg Roman, Daniel Pipes, and Matt Bennett.

Plaintiff also reported to Manie Meyer and Lisa Barbounis.

       273.    During Plaintiff’s employment, Defendants, including Defendant, Greg Roman,

subjected Plaintiff to discrimination and harassment by cursing, yelling, screaming, shouting,

insulting, belittling, disparaging, and verbally abusing female staff including Plaintiff, Delaney

Yonchek.

       274.    Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek reported Defendant, Greg Roman’s severe and

pervasive discrimination and harassment and was subjected to retaliation.




                                                 36
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 37 of 51



       275.    Defendant, Greg Roman created a hostile work environment and then

implemented and enforced policies whereby Plaintiff and the other female staff were denied the

ability to report the severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

       276.    Defendant, Greg Roman initiated, implemented and enforced a policy whereby

female staff members were not allowed to interact with the President of the Middle East Forum:

Defendant, Daniel Pipes.

       277.    Defendant, Greg Roman actively and willfully worked to subjugate female

employees of the Middle East Forum through policies designed to impede, obstruct, and prevent

female employees from vindicating their rights pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.

       278.    Defendant, Greg Roman ordered female employees including Plaintiff never to

speak directly with President, Daniel Pipes.

       279.    In November 2018, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek notified and reported Defendant,

Greg Roman’s discrimination and harassment of the female staff during a meeting with

Defendant, Daniel Pipes when almost every female employee of the Middle East Forum came

forward to report the severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment to which female staff

were subjected by Defendant, Greg Roman.

       280.    The female staff reported Defendant, Greg Roman’s harassment, bullying, and his

intolerable, onerous, and abusive conduct and comments designed to discriminate against female

employees of the Middle East Forum.

       281.    The meeting, which was sometime around November 5, 2018, included the

female staff and Defendant, Daniel Pipes. The meeting was held to report Defendant, Greg

Roman’s discrimination and harassment in the workplace. Those in attendance included:




                                               37
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 38 of 51



Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, Patricia McNulty, Lisa Barbounis, Matt Bennett, Stacy Roman,

Thelma Prosser, Marnie Meyer, Mark Fink, Defendant, Daniel Pipes, and Caitriona Brady.

       282.    Stacy Roman is Defendant, Greg Roman’s sister. Her presence at a meeting held

to report and begin investigations into Defendant, Greg Roman’s discrimination and harassment

in the workplace is indicative of Defendants ’ utter and total disregard for the anti-discriminatory

intent promulgated by Title VII.

       283.    Throughout the entire meeting, while the female staff who were subjected to

severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment in the workplace attempted to report

Defendant, Greg Roman’s unlawful conduct, Defendant, Greg Roman’s sister, Stacy Roman was

belligerent and interjected argumentative comments.

       284.    For example, Stacy Roman blamed the women who were subjected to

discrimination and harassment based upon their sex and gender stating that they should not have

worn such short skirts.

       285.    Notwithstanding, Defendant, Daniel Pipes and house counsel, Mark Fink refused

to ask Stacy Roman to leave in order to provide the female staff who were subjected to

discrimination and harassment with a safe environment in which to make their reports.

       286.    Moreover, Daniel Pipes actually invited Defendant, Greg Roman to the meeting,

although he did not attend. Defendant, Greg Roman was asked not to intend within an hour

before the meeting started.

       287.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes coerced the female staff to sign nondisclosure

agreements (“NDA”) as a condition to attending the meeting and having reports of

discrimination and harassment considered for the first time.




                                                38
           Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 39 of 51



         288.    Defendant, Daniel Pipes would not allow the female staff including Plaintiff,

Delaney Yonchek to report discrimination and harassment in the workplace until she signed an

NDA.

         289.    Defendant, Greg Roman set up cameras around the office and harassed the female

staff by monitoring everything they did, including Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

         290.    These cameras are still operational today and Defendant, Greg Roman continues

to harass the female staff using surveillance equipment.

         291.    Defendant, Greg Roman used the surveillance equipment to monitor female staff

and how often and how long they used the bathroom.

         292.    On one occasion, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek worked on a spreadsheet.

Defendant, Greg Roman was not in the office. While working, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek

received an electronic message from Defendant, Greg Roman that stated, “didn’t you already

input that one?”

         293.    Defendant, Greg Roman’s message was designed to harass, scare, intimidate, and

alarm Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek by sending the message to Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek he was

watching her. Defendant, Greg Roman did this in a clear attempt to harass, scare, and

intimidate female employees and make them feel like he was watching them.

         294.    Defendant, Greg Roman told female employees how many times they used the

restroom in a given day.

         295.    For example, he would say, Delaney Yonchek used the bathroom five (5) times

today.

         296.    Defendant, Greg Roman actively attempted to engage inters of the MEF in sexual

relationships.



                                                 39
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 40 of 51



       297.     Defendant Greg Roman uses his position and power as a proxy for the MEF to

engage inters of the MEF in sexual relationships.

       298.     Because of Defendant, Greg Roman’s history of discrimination and harassment in

the workplace, to which female staff at MEF have been subjected, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek is

afraid to be alone with Defendant Greg Roman.

       299.     Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek sent text messages to Defendant Matthew Bennett

notifying Defendant, Matthew Bennett that she was afraid to be along with Defendant, Greg

Roman.

       300.     Defendant, Matthew Bennett refused to conduct an investigation. No corrective

action was taken.

       301.     Defendant, Greg Roman forces female employees to sit next to him at his desk,

instead of across from him.

       302.     Defendant, Greg Roman maneuvers himself to get inappropriately close to the

female staff including Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

       303.     Defendant, Greg Roman forced female staff to sit with him and watch

inappropriate videos.

       304.     Defendant, Greg Roman continued to divulge inappropriate sexual information to

female staff.

       305.     For example, Defendant, Greg Roman spoke about his girlfriend giving him

blowjobs.

       306.     Defendant, Greg Roman gave money to an intern named Gabrielle Bloom which

is against Middle East Forum policy.




                                               40
         Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 41 of 51



       307.     Defendant, Greg Roman started inappropriate sexual rumors involving staff

members including, Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek.

       308.     Defendant, Greg Roman informed people in the office that coworker, Caitriona

Brady’s father was having a sexual affair with another staff member.

       309.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes also maintained sexual relationships with employees

including an employee named Brook Goldstein.

       310.     At present, Plaintiff is subjected to a severe and pervasive atmosphere of

discrimination and harassment based upon her sex and gender and in retaliation for Plaintiff’s

reports and opposition to discrimination and harassment.

       311.     Plaintiff continues her attempts to report and obtain assistance from Defendant,

Daniel Pipes.

       312.     Defendant, Daniel Pipes continues to protect, shield, indemnify and assist

Defendant, Greg Roman from any and all consequences caused by his severe and pervasive

discrimination and harassment.

       313.     Accordingly, Defendant, Daniel Pipes has condoned, sanctioned, permitted, and

allowed the discrimination, harassment, and retaliation to continue.

       314.     Defendants have made Plaintiff’s working conditions so onerous, abusive, and

intolerable that no person in Plaintiff’s shoes should be expected to continue working under such

conditions.

       315.     As a result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiff felt extremely humiliated, degraded,

victimized, embarrassed and emotionally distressed.




                                                 41
          Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 42 of 51



       316.    The severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment in the workplace has

caused Plaintiff to suffer an acerbation and aggravation of any preexisting condition involving

emotional distress.

       317.    As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff was caused to sustain serious and

permanent personal injuries, including permanent psychological injuries. As a result of

Defendants’ actions, Plaintiff felt extremely humiliated, degraded, victimized, embarrassed and

emotionally distressed.

       318.    As a result of the acts and conduct complained of herein, Plaintiff has suffered

and will continue to suffer a loss of income, loss of salary, bonuses, benefits and other

compensation to which such employment entailed.

       319.    Plaintiff also suffered future pecuniary losses, emotional pain, humiliation,

suffering, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment of life, and other non-pecuniary losses.

       320.    Plaintiff has further experienced severe emotional and physical distress.

       321.    Plaintiff has suffered from severe emotional distress which has caused physical

manifestations as a result of Defendants’ unlawful and severe and pervasive conduct and

comments.

       322.    Any preexisting condition which Plaintiff may have maintained prior to her

employment for Defendant, MEF was acerbated and aggravated by the severe and pervasive

discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

       323.    As Defendants’ conduct has been malicious, willful, outrageous, and conducted

with full knowledge of the law, Plaintiff demands Punitive Damages as against all the

Defendants, jointly and severally.




                                                 42
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 43 of 51



          324.   Defendants have exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination but

also retaliation.   At all times material Defendants refused to investigate or take appropriate

remedial action in response to Plaintiff’s complaints of discrimination, harassment and hostile

work environment.

          325.   Defendants discriminatory conduct was severe and pervasive, and created a

hostile work environment for Plaintiff.

          326.   The above are just some examples of some of the discrimination and retaliation to

which Defendants subjected Plaintiff.

          327.   Plaintiff claims a pattern and practice of discrimination, claims continuing

violations, and makes all claims herein under the continuing violations doctrine. Defendants have

exhibited a pattern and practice of not only discrimination but also retaliation.




                           FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
                      DISCRIMINATION UNDER TITLE VII
            HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT AND DISPARATE TREATMENT
                          (all corporate Defendants only)

          328.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in

paragraphs one (1) through three-hundred-twenty-seven (327) as fully as if they were set forth at

length.

          329.   This claim is authorized and instituted pursuant to the provisions of Title VII of

the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et. seq., as amended, for relief based upon the

unlawful employment practices of the above-named Defendants. Plaintiff complains of




                                                  43
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 44 of 51



Defendants’ violation of Title VII’s prohibition against discrimination in employment based, in

whole or in part, upon an employee’s race, color, and/or national origin.

          330.   SEC. 2000e-2 [Section 703] states as follows:

                 (a) Employer practices

                 It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer –

                 (1) to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge an individual, or otherwise to

                    discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms,

                    conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such individual’s race,

                    color, religion, sex, or national origin; or

                 (2) to limit, segregate, or classify his employees or applicants for employment in

                    any way which would deprive or tend to deprive any individual of

                    employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his status as an

                    employee, because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national

                    origin.

          331.   Defendants engages in unlawful employment practices prohibited by 42 U.S.C. §

2000e et. seq., by discriminating against Plaintiff because of her sex and gender.

          332.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek was subjected to sex and gender discrimination which

was severe and pervasive.

          333.   Plaintiff claims that she was subjected to a hostile work environment based upon

the severe and pervasive discrimination and harassment in the workplace.

          334.   Plaintiff was also terminated from her employment based upon Plaintiff’s sex and

gender.




                                                   44
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 45 of 51



          335.   Defendants engaged in several acts of discrimination and harassment that were so

severe that a single act was sufficient to create a hostile work environment.

          336.   Defendants also engaged on ongoing, continuous, daily abuse which was so

pervasive as to create a hostile work environment.



                                     SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
                                   RETALIATION UNDER TITLE VII
                                   (against corporate Defendants only)

          337.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in

paragraphs one (1) through three-hundred-thirty-six (336) as fully as if they were set forth at

length.

          338.   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1962, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-3(a)

provides that it shall be unlawful employment practice for an employer: “(1) to…discriminate

against any of his employees…because [s]he has opposed any practice made an unlawful

employment practice by this subchapter, or because [s]he has made a charge, testified, assisted, or

participated in any matter in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this subchapter.”

          339.   Defendants engaged in unlawful employment practices prohibited by 42 U.S.C. §

2000e et. seq. by retaliating against Plaintiff with respect to the terms, conditions, and/or

privileges of his employment because of her opposition to and reporting of the unlawful

employment practices of Defendants.

          340.   Plaintiff continued to oppose the severe and pervasive discrimination and

harassment in the workplace and even submitted a written statement to report the discrimination

and harassment in the workplace.




                                                  45
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 46 of 51



          341.   Defendants refused to investigate Plaintiff’s reports of discrimination and

harassment in the workplace.

          342.   Defendants refused to initiate prompt corrective actions.

          343.   Accordingly, Defendants permitted, sanctioned, condoned, and allowed the

discrimination and harassment to continue.

          344.   Any corrective action taken by Defendants was not enforced and Plaintiff was

subjected to a campaign of severe and pervasive retaliation which also created a hostile work

environment.

                                THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION
                           DISCRIMINATION UNDER STATE LAW
                                   (Not yet ripe for suit)

          345.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in

paragraphs one (1) through three-hundred-forty-four (344) as fully as if they were set forth at

length.

          346.   The PHRA § 955 provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice:

                 (a) For any employer because of the race, color, religious creed, ancestry, age,
                     sex, national origin or non-job related handicap or disability or the use of a
                     guide or support animal because of blindness, deafness or physical handicap
                     of any individual or independent contractor, to refuse to hire or employ or
                     contract with, or to bar or to discharge from employment such individual or
                     independent contractor, or to otherwise discriminate against such individual or
                     impendent contractor with respect to compensation, hire, tenure, terms,
                     conditions or privileges of employment or contract, if the individual or
                     independent contractor is the best able and most competent to perform the
                     service required.

          347.   Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discriminating

against the Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s sex and gender.

          348.   Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all of the applicable

paragraphs of the PHRA § 955.

                                                  46
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 47 of 51



                               FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION
                             RETALIATION UNDER STATE LAW
                                   (Not yet ripe for suit)

          349.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in

paragraphs one (1) through three-hundred-forty-eight (348) as fully as if they were set forth at

length.

          350.   PHRA § 955(d) provides that it shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice: “For

any person, employer, employment agency or labor organization to discriminate in any manner

against any individual because such individual has opposed any practice forbidden by this act, or

because such individual has made a charge, testified or assisted, in any manner, in any

investigation, proceeding or hearing under this act.”

          351.   Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice by discharging,

retaliating, and otherwise discriminating against the Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s opposition to

the unlawful employment practices of Plaintiff’s employer.




                                FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION
                           DISCRIMINATION UNDER STATE LAW
                                   (Not yet ripe for suit)

          352.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, here by incorporated all allegations contained in

paragraphs one (1) through three-hundred-fifty-one (351) as fully as if they were set forth at

length.

          353.   PHRA § 955(e) provides that it shall be unlawful discriminatory practice: “For

any person, employer, employment agency, labor organization or employee, to aid, abet, incite,


                                                 47
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 48 of 51



compel or coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory

practice, or to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with the provisions of this act or

any order issued thereunder, or to attempt, directly or indirectly, to commit any act declared by

this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice.”

          354.   Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of PHRA

§ 955(e) by committing assault and battery, aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling, and/or

coercing the discriminatory conduct.



                            SIXTH CAUSE OF ACTION
                            DISCRIMINATION UNDER
                  PHILADELPHIA CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORINANCE
                               (Not yet ripe for suit)

          355.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in

paragraphs one (1) through three-hundred-fifty-four (354) as fully as if they were set forth at

length.

          356.   The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) provides that “It shall be

an unlawful discriminatory practice: “It shall be an unlawful employment practice to deny or

interfere with the employment opportunities of an individual based upon his or her race,

ethnicity, color, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition), sexual

orientation, gender identity, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, disability, marital status,

familial status, genetic information, or domestic or sexual violence victim status, including but

not limited to, the following: (a) For any employer to refuse to hire, discharge, or otherwise

discriminate against any individual, with respect to tenure, promotions, terms, conditions, or

privileges of employment or with respect to any matter directly or indirectly related to

employment.”

                                                   48
            Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 49 of 51



          357.   Defendants engages in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1) by creating and maintaining discriminatory

working conditions, and otherwise discriminating against Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s sex and

gender.

          358.   Plaintiff hereby makes a claim against Defendants under all of the applicable

paragraphs of Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance Chapter 9-1100.

                           SEVENTH CAUSE OF ACTION
                              RETALIATION UNDER
                  PHILADELPHIA CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORINANCE
                               (Not yet ripe for suit)


          359.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in

paragraphs one (1) through three-hundred-fifty-eight (358) as fully as if they were set forth at

length.

          360.   The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(g) provides that it shall be

unlawful discriminatory practice: “For any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage, or

otherwise penalize, retaliate or discriminate in any manner against any person because he, she or

it has complied with the provisions of this Chapter, exercised his, her or its rights under this

Chapter, enjoyed the benefits of this Chapter, or made a charge, testified or assisted in any

manner in any investigation, proceeding or hearing hereunder.”

          361.   Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(g) by discriminating against the Plaintiff

because of Plaintiff’s opposition to the unlawful employment practices of Plaintiff’s employer.

                           EIGHTH CAUSE OF ACTION
                            DISCRIMINATION UNDER
                  PHILADELPHIA CITY ADMINISTRATIVE ORINANCE
                               (Not yet ripe for suit)

                                                 49
             Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 50 of 51




          362.   Plaintiff, Delaney Yonchek, hereby incorporates all allegations contained in

paragraphs one (1) through three-hundred-sixty-one (361) as fully as if they were set forth at

length.

          363.   The Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) provided that it shall be

unlawful discriminatory practice: “For any person to aid, abet, incite, induce, compel or coerce

the doing of any unlawful employment practice or to obstruct or prevent any person from

complying with the provisions of this Section or any order issued hereunder or to attempt

directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this Section to be an unlawful employment

practice.”

          364.   Defendants engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice in violation of

Philadelphia Fair Practices Ordinance § 9-1103(1)(h) by aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling

and coercing the above discriminatory, unlawful and retaliatory conduct.




                                           JURY DEMAND

Plaintiff requests a jury trial on all issued to be tried.



                                       PRAYER FOR RELIEF

          WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment against Defendants, jointly and severally,

in an amount to be determined at the time of trial plus interest, punitive damages, liquidated




                                                    50
Case 2:19-cv-05083-PD Document 1 Filed 10/29/19 Page 51 of 51
