Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/15697491/1/harris-v-best-buy-company-inc/
Title: Complaint – #1 in HARRIS v. BEST BUY COMPANY, INC. (E.D. Pa., 2:19-cv-02334) – CourtListener.com

Case 2:19-cv-02334-BMS Document1 Filed 05/29/19 Page 1 of 7

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

ANGELA HARRIS,
Plaintiff, CIVIL ACTION
: NO.::
V.
BEST BUY COMPANY, ING.,

Defendant.

COMPLAINT AND JURY DEMAND

I. PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

Plaintiff, Angela Harris, claims of Defendant, Best Buy Company, Inc., a sum in
excess of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000.00) in damages upon a
cause of action whereof the following is a statement:

h. This action for declaratory, injunctive, monetary and other appropriate
relief is brought by Plaintiff to redress violations by Defendant of rights secured to the
Plaintiff by the laws of the United States of America.

2: This action arises under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (‘Title VII"),
42 U.S.C. §2000(e), et seq., and is brought by the Plaintiff to redress arbitrary,
improper, unlawful, willful, deliberate and intentional discrimination and retaliation with
respect to her compensation, terms, conditions and privileges of employment by the

Defendant, based on her gender.

ll. JURISDICTION AND VENUE
o- The jurisdiction of this Court is invoked pursuant to Title 28 U.S.C. §1331

and Title VII, which provide for original jurisdiction of Plaintiffs claim arising under the
Case 2:19-cv-02334-BMS Document1 Filed 05/29/19 Page 2 of 7

laws of the United States and over actions to recover damages and to secure equitable
and other relief under the appropriate governing statutes.

&. The venue of this Court is invoked pursuant to the dictates of Title 28
U.S.C. §1391(c).

5. The supplemental jurisdiction of this Court is invoked pursuant Title 28
U.S.C. §1367 to consider Plaintiff's discrimination claims arising under the Pennsylvania
Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. §951 et seq. (“PHRA’).

6. All conditions precedent to the institution of this suit have been fulfilled.
On March 27, 2019, a Notice of Right to Sue was issued by the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission. This action has been filed by the Plaintiff within ninety (90)
days of receipt of said notice. The Plaintiff has exhausted all other jurisdictional

requirements to the maintenance of this action.

lll. PARTIES

Fe Plaintiff is an individual and citizen of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
who resides at 800 Trenton Road, Apt. #322, Langhorne, Pennsylvania.

8. Defendant, Best Buy Company, Inc., was and is now a business
corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania with a place of business located at 310 Commerce Boulevard, Fairless
Hills, Pennsylvania.

9. At all times relevant hereto, Defendant was acting through its agents,
servants and employees, who were authorized and acting within the scope of their

authority, course of employment, and under the direct control of Defendant.
Case 2:19-cv-02334-BMS Document 1 Filed 05/29/19 Page 3 of 7

10. Defendant has been "person(s)" and "employer(s)" as defined under Title
VIl and the PHRA, and are subject to the provisions of each said Act. At all times

relevant hereto, Plaintiff was either individually or jointly employed by Defendant.

IV. STATEMENT OF CLAIM

11. Plaintiff was employed by Defendant from September, 2016, until on or
about February 1, 2018, when she was terminated from her employment as a result of
unlawful discrimination complained of herein. Plaintiff held the position of Home
Theater Sales Supervisor.

12. Throughout her employment, Plaintiff performed her job function in a
dutiful and competent manner for Defendant.

13. In or about June, 2017, an Employee Relations representative of
Defendant asked Plaintiff whether she was having a sexual relationship with her
superior, Store Manager, Jordan Moskovitz (“Moskovitz’). Plaintiff was told that she
would be subject to termination if she was in any way untruthful in regards to her
inquiry.

14. Plaintiff replied truthfully that she had known Moskovitz for several years
and that he was a friend, and that she was not in a romantic relationship with him.

15. | Subsequent thereto, the Plaintiff and Moskovitz ceased all social contact
with one another as a result of the said inquiry.

16. Nothing more was discussed with plaintiff regarding the above matter until
on or about January 25, 2018, when Plaintiff was again summoned to speak with
Human Resources representative, Colleen (LNU), and District Manager, James Conrad

(“Conrad”).
Case 2:19-cv-02334-BMS Document1 Filed 05/29/19 Page 4 of 7

17. During this meeting, Plaintiff was again questioned about her “relationship”
with Moskovitz and advised to answer all personal questions truthfully or face
termination.

18. The questions directed to Plaintiff focused on whether Moskovitz had a
key to her apartment or if he had been to her home. Plaintiff was told that Defendant's
management had “evidence” that Moskovitz’ car was at her home on a particular day in
question.

19. More disturbingly, Plaintiff was asked a gender-based discriminating line
of questioning regarding whether she had an abortion and if her baby was Moskovitz’
child.

20. Plaintiff again reiterated, truthfully, that she had only maintained a
friendship with Moskovitz and nothing more. She also adamantly denied that Moskovitz
was the father of the child she had aborted in September, 2017 and informed Defendant
that this was an emotionally devastating and traumatic time in her life that she would
rather not discuss.

21. Thereafter, Plaintiff called Conrad and complained that she was extremely
uncomfortable and upset with the line of improper questioning, and that she believed
she was being discriminated against on the basis of her gender. Plaintiff contacted
Colleen (LNU) directly, per Conrad’s request, and advised her of the same.

22. Thereafter, Plaintiff learned that Colleen (LNU) had also questioned her
friend Rachel Tomaro about her pregnancy, abortion and whether her baby was
Moskovitz’ child.

23. Onor about February 1, 2018, the Plaintiff was called into a meeting with
Case 2:19-cv-02334-BMS Document1 Filed 05/29/19 Page 5 of 7

Conrad, Shearn and Mobile Manager, Katie Demasi, and informed she was terminated
from her position of employment due to the fact that their investigation into her alleged
relationship with Moskovitz yielded “credible evidence” to warrant her termination.

24. The Plaintiff was denied details of Defendant's investigation due to
“confidentiality reasons”. No such evidence could have existed, because no such
relationship between Plaintiff and Moskovitz ever existed.

25. Plaintiff believes and therefore avers that the Defendant subjected her to
gender-based discrimination and harassment and terminated her for opposing said

discriminatory practices, as aforesaid.

COUNT |

(Title VII)
Gender Discrimination/Retaliation

Terms, Conditions and Privileges of Employment/Termination

26. Plaintiff incorporates by reference paragraphs 1 through 25 of this
Complaint as if fully set forth at length herein.

27. The actions of the Defendant, through its agents, servants and
employees, in subjecting the Plaintiff to gender discrimination and retaliation in the
terms, conditions and privileges of her employment, and in terminating Plaintiff's
employment solely because of her gender, constituted a violation of Title VII of the Civil
Rights Acts of 1964 (‘Title VII”), 42 U.S.C. §2000(e), et seq.

28. Defendant’s acts of discrimination as aforesaid were intentional, willful and
in reckless disregard of Plaintiff's rights and interests.

29. Asa direct result of Defendant's willful and unlawful actions in violation of

Title VII, the Plaintiff has suffered emotional distress, humiliation, embarrassment, loss

-5-
Case 2:19-cv-02334-BMS Document1 Filed 05/29/19 Page 6 of 7

of self-esteem and has sustained a loss of earnings, plus the value of the
aforementioned benefits, plus loss of future earning power, plus loss of back pay and
front pay and interest due thereon.

COUNT Il

(PHRA)
Gender Discrimination/Retaliation

 

Terms, Conditions and Privileges of Employment/Termination

30. Plaintiff incorporates by reference paragraphs 1 through 29 of this
Complaint as if fully set forth at length herein.

31. The actions of the Defendant, through its agents, servants and
employees, in subjecting the Plaintiff to gender discrimination and retaliation in the
terms, conditions and privileges of her employment, and in terminating Plaintiff's
employment solely because of her gender, constituted a violation of the Pennsylvania
Human Relations Act 43 P.S. § 951, et seq.

32. Defendant's acts of discrimination as aforesaid were intentional, willful and
in reckless disregard of Plaintiff's rights and interests.

33. Asa direct result of Defendant's willful and unlawful actions in violation of
the PHRA, the Plaintiff has suffered emotional distress, humiliation, embarrassment,
loss of self-esteem and has sustained a loss of earnings, plus the value of the
aforementioned benefits, plus loss of future earning power, plus loss of back pay and

front pay and interest due thereon.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

34. Plaintiff repeats the allegations of paragraphs 1 through 33 of this

Complaint as if set forth herein at length.
Case 2:19-cv-02334-BMS Document1 Filed 05/29/19 Page 7 of 7

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff requests the Court to enter judgment in her favor and
against Defendant and order:

(a) | Defendant compensate Plaintiff for the wages and other benefits
and emoluments of employment lost, because of its unlawful conduct;

(b) Defendant pay to Plaintiff compensatory damages for future
pecuniary losses, pain, suffering, inconvenience, mental anguish, loss of employment of
life and other non-pecuniary losses as allowable;

(c) Defendant pay to Plaintiff punitive damages under Title VII and post
judgment interest, costs of suit and attorney and expert witness fees as allowed by law;

(d) | The Court award such other relief as is deemed just and proper.

THE LOVIFZ LAW FIRM, P.C.

>»)

KEVIN. LOVITZ, ESQUIRE

  

erty Place

1650 Market Street, 36" FI.
Philadelphia, PA 19103
(215) 735-1996 Phone
(267) 319-7943 Fax
Kevin@LovitzLaw.com

Attorney for Plaintiff, Angela Harris
