Source URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/14985663/1/voorhees-v-educational-commission-for-foreign-medical-graduates/
Title: Complaint – #1 in VOORHEES v. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION FOR FOREIGN MEDICAL GRADUATES (E.D. Pa., 2:19-cv-01761) – CourtListener.com

Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 1 of 10

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

ROBERT VOORHEES,
Plaintiff,
v. CIVIL ACTION NO.

EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION FOR :
FOREIGN MEDICAL GRADUATES,

Defendant.
COMPLAINT AND JURY DEMAND
I. PRELIMINARY STATEMENT:

l. This is an action for an award of damages, attorneys’ fees and other relief
on behalf of the Plaintiff, Robert Voorhees (“Plaintiff Voorhees”), a former employee of
the Defendant, Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (“Defendant”),
who has been harmed by the Defendant’s discriminatory and retaliatory employment
practices.

Dr This action arises under the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C.
§12101, et seq. (“SADA”), the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. §621 et
seq. (“ADEA”), and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act (““PHRA”), 43 P.S. §951 et
seq.

Il. JURISDICTION AND VENUE:

3. The jurisdiction of this Court is invoked, and venue is proper in this district,

pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§1331 and 1391 as Plaintiff Voorhees’ claims are substantively

based on the ADA and ADEA.
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 2 of 10

4, The supplemental jurisdiction of this Court is invoked pursuant to 28
U.S.C. §1367 to consider Plaintiff Voorhees’ claims arising under the PHRA.

5. AJl conditions precedent to the institution of this suit have been fulfilled
and Plaintiff Voorhees has satisfied all jurisdictional prerequisites to the maintenance of
this action. On March 15, 2019, a Notice of Right to Sue was issued by the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission and this action has been filed within ninety (90)
days of receipt of said notice.

TI. PARTIES:

6. Plaintiff, Robert Voorhees (‘Plaintiff Voorhees”), is a sixty-five (65) year
old adult individual and citizen of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, residing therein
at 6003 Spruce Mill Drive, Yardley, Pennsylvania 19067.

7. Defendant, Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates
(“Defendant”), is a non-profit organization duly organized and existing under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, maintaining a place of business therein at 3624
Market Street, 4th Floor, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.

8. At all times relevant hereto, the Defendant was acting through its agents,
servants, and employees, who were acting within the scope of their authority, course of
their employment, and under the direct contro] of the Defendant.

9. At all times material herein, the Defendant is and has been a “person” and
“employer” as defined under the ADA, ADEA, and PHRA, and is accordingly subject to

the provisions of each said Act.
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 3 of 10

IV. STATEMENT OF CLAIMS:

10. Plaintiff Voorhees was employed by the Defendant from on or about June
6, 2016 until on or about January 5, 2017, the date of his unlawful termination.

11. During the course of his employment with the Defendant, Plaintiff
Voorhees held the position of Manager of Compensation and Benefits, and at all times
maintained a satisfactory job performance rating in said capacity.

12. By way of background, Plaintiff Voorhees suffers from Clinical Depression
and Anxiety Disorder. Said medical conditions constitute disabilities within the meanings
of the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) and the Pennsylvania Human Relations
Act (“PHRA”) in that they substantially impair one or more of his major life activities,
including, but not limited to, concentrating and interacting with others.

13. In or about September of 2016, Plaintiff Voorhees attended a conference in
Seattle, Washington with Betty Lehew (“Lehew”), Vice President of Human Resources
and Plaintiff Voorhees’ direct supervisor. At a dinner during said conference, Lehew
consumed several alcoholic beverages and asked Plaintiff Voorhees “how old are you
anyway?” When Plaintiff Voorhees replied that he was sixty-two (62), Lehew exclaimed,
“62, really? I didn’t know you were that old.”

14. Thereafter, Defendant, through its agents, servants, and employees,
including, but not limited to, Lehew, began subjecting Plaintiff Voorhees to
discrimination based on his age.

15. By way of example, following Plaintiff Voorhees’ disclosure of his age, the
relationship between Lehew and Plaintiff Voorhees quickly deteriorated. Specifically,

3
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 4 of 10

Lehew began belittling Plaintiff Voorhees by referring to him as “meek” and “weak,” and
unjustifiably criticized his job performance. Additionally, during staff meetings, Lehew
publically stated that Plaintiff Voorhees was “forgetful” and that he “forgets everything,”
thereby insinuating that he suffered from memory issues dues to his age.

16. Moreover, Lehew regularly utilized weekly one-on-one meetings with
Plaintiff Voorhees to berate and criticize Plaintiff Voorhees rather than discuss work
related topics, thereby causing Plaintiff Voorhees to dread attending the same. During
said meetings, Lehew also expressed her unfounded belief that Plaintiff Voorhees’
position was “too much” for him.

17. Accordingly, upon his return from the aforementioned conference in or
about September of 2016, Plaintiff Voorhees registered a complaint of age discrimination
with Sharon Roman-Trowell (“Roman-Trowell”), Director of Employee Relations and
Recruitment Manager. Significantly, Roman-Trowell acknowledged that Lehew was “on”
Plaintiff Voorhees, thereby acknowledging that Lehew was singling Plaintiff Voorhees
out for disparate treatment. However, Roman-Trowell failed to take any corrective action
to cause the discriminatory conduct to cease.

18. Over the course of the following months, Plaintiff Voorhees began
experiencing symptoms associated with his Clinical Depression and Anxiety Disorder as
a result of Lehew’s discriminatory and hostile treatment. Accordingly, Plaintiff
Voorhees’ physician recommended that he take a medical leave of absence as treatment

for the same.
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 5 of 10

19. Onor about December 16, 2016, Plaintiff Voorhees disclosed his
disabilities to Lehew and requested a medical leave of absence until December 27, 2016
as a reasonable accommodation for his disabilities. Defendant granted said request.

20. | Onor about December 27, 2016, Plaintiff Voorhees returned to work. Upon
his return, Lehew demanded that Plaintiff Voorhees provide a letter from his physician
releasing him to return to work. Upon Plaintiff Voorhees’ production of the same, Lehew
curtly informed Plaintiff Voorhees that the form was “not properly completed” and
directed Plaintiff Voorhees to leave the workplace.

21. Asaresult of Lehew’s conduct, Plaintiff Voorhees suffered exacerbated
symptoms associated with his disabilities and requested an extension of his medical leave
of absence until February 20, 2017 as a reasonable accommodation for the same.

22.  Inresponse, Lehew denied Plaintiff Voorhees’ request for a reasonable
accommodation and abruptly terminated his employment, effective January 5, 2017,
allegedly because he would not be present for the “HRIS implementation process.”
Curiously, the target implementation date was not until July/August of 2017 and very
minimal work was completed with respect to said implementation process as of February
20, 2017.

23. | Upon information and belief, following his termination, the Defendant
replaced Plaintiff Voorhees with Kiandra Johnson (“Johnson”), a less qualified, less
experienced, significantly younger, non-disabled individual.

24. Plaintiff Voorhees believes and therefore avers that the Defendant’s
articulated reason for the termination of his employment was pretextual and that the

5
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 6 of 10

Defendant actually terminated him on the basis of his age and his actual and/or perceived
disabilities and/or record of impairment (Clinical Depression, Anxiety Disorder) and/or
in retaliation for requesting a reasonable accommodation for his disabilities.
COUNT I
(ADA — Disability Discrimination, Failure to Accommodate,
Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process, Retaliation)
Plaintiff Voorhees v. the Defendant

25. Plaintiff Voorhees incorporates by reference paragraphs | through 24 of his
Complaint as though fully set forth herein.

26. The actions of the Defendant, through its agents, servants and employees,
in subjecting Plaintiff Voorhees to discrimination based on his actual and/or perceived
disabilities and/or record of impairment, failing to provide a reasonable accommodation
for his disabilities, failing to engage in the interactive process, and retaliating against him
for requesting a reasonable accommodation for his disabilities, constituted violations of
the ADA.

27. Asadirect result of the aforesaid unlawful discriminatory and retaliatory
employment practices engaged in by the Defendant in violation of the ADA, Plaintiff
Voorhees sustained permanent and irreparable harm, resulting in his termination from
employment, which caused him to sustain a loss of earnings, plus the value of certain
benefits, plus loss of future earning power, plus back pay, and front pay and interest due
thereon.

28. Asa further direct result of the aforesaid unlawful discriminatory and

retaliatory employment practices engaged in by the Defendant in violation of the ADA,
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 7 of 10

Plaintiff Voorhees suffered severe emotional distress, embarrassment, humiliation, and
loss of self-esteem.
COUNT Il
(ADEA - Age Discrimination, Retaliation)
Plaintiff Voorhees v. the Defendant

29. Plaintiff Voorhees incorporates by reference paragraphs | through 28 of his
Complaint as though fully set forth herein.

30. The actions of the Defendant, through its agents, servants and employees,
in subjecting Plaintiff Voorhees to discrimination based on his age, and retaliation for
opposing age discrimination in the workplace, and in knowing or showing reckless
disregard for whether its conduct was prohibited by statute, constituted willful violations
of the ADEA.

31. Asa direct result of the aforesaid unlawful discriminatory and retaliatory
employment practices engaged in by the Defendant in violation of the ADEA, Plaintiff
Voorhees sustained permanent and irreparable harm, resulting in the loss of his
employment, which caused him to sustain a loss of earnings, plus the value of certain
benefits, plus loss of future earning power, plus back pay, and front pay and interest due
thereon.

COUNT I
(PHRA - Disability Discrimination, Failure to Accommodate,
Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process, Age Discrimination, Retaliation)
Plaintiff Voorhees v. the Defendant

32. Plaintiff Voorhees incorporates by reference paragraphs 1| through 31 of his

Complaint as though fully set forth herein.
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 8 of 10

33. The actions of the Defendant, through its agents, servants and employees,
in subjecting Plaintiff Voorhees to discrimination based on his age and actual and/or
perceived disabilities and/or record of impairment, failing to provide a reasonable
accommodation for his disabilities, and failing to engage in the interactive process, and
retaliating against him for requesting a reasonable accommodation for his disabilities and
opposing discrimination in the workplace, constituted violations of the PHRA.

34. Asa direct result of the aforesaid unlawful discriminatory and retaliatory
employment practices engaged in by the Defendant in violation of the PHRA, Plaintiff
Voorhees sustained permanent and irreparable harm, resulting in his termination from
employment, which caused him to sustain a loss of earnings, plus the value of certain
benefits, plus loss of future earning power, plus back pay, and front pay and interest due
thereon.

35. Asa further direct result of the aforesaid unlawful discriminatory and
retaliatory employment practices engaged in by the Defendant in violation of the PHRA,
Plaintiff Voorhees suffered severe emotional distress, embarrassment, humiliation, and
loss of self-esteem.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

 

36. Plaintiff Voorhees incorporates by reference paragraphs | through 35 of his
Complaint as though fully set forth herein.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff Voorhees requests that this Court enter judgment in his

favor and against the Defendant, and order that:
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 9 of 10

a. Defendant compensate Plaintiff Voorhees with a rate of pay and other
benefits and emoluments of employment to which he would have been entitled had he not

been subjected to unlawful discrimination;

b. Defendant compensate Plaintiff Voorhees with an award of front pay, if
appropriate;
c. Defendant pay to Plaintiff Voorhees punitive damages, liquidated damages,

compensatory damages for future pecuniary losses, pain, suffering, inconvenience,
mental anguish, loss of enjoyment of life and other nonpecuniary losses as allowable;
d. Defendant pay to Plaintiff Voorhees, pre and post judgment interest, costs
of suit and attorney and expert witness fees as allowed by law;
e. The Court award such other relief as is deemed just and proper.
JURY DEMAND

Plaintiff Voorhees demands trial by jury.

SIDNEY L. GOLD & ASSOC., P.C.

By: /s/ Sidney L. Gold, Esquire
SIDNEY L. GOLD, ESQUIRE
1.D. No.: 21374
1835 Market Street, Suite 515
Philadelphia, PA 19103
(215) 569-1999
Attorney for Plaintiff

DATE: April 23, 2019
Case 2:19-cv-01761-JD Document1 Filed 04/23/19 Page 10 of 10

VERIFICATION
I hereby verify that the statements contained in this Complaint are true and correct to the
best of my knowledge, information and belief. I understand that false statements herein are
made subject to the penalties of Title 18 Pa. C.S.A. §4904, relating to unsworn falsification to

authorities.

DATE: -/I 2019

 

ROBERT VOORHEES, PLAINTIFF

 
